Governor AbdulRaman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State is set to repeal the current pension law under which former governors and their deputies collect monthly pensions. Alhaji Rafiu Ajakaye, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor AbdulRazaq, said in a statement on Friday in Ilorin that the governor was set to send an executive bill to the House of Assembly that would repeal the current pension law. READ ALSO: Sanwo-Olu To Cancel Tinubu, Others’ Pension Ajakaye said the executive bill would be transmitted to the lawmakers by next week seeking the immediate repeal of pension law. “The governor has listened to voices of the majority of the citizens opposing the pension law for former governors and deputy governors”, the statement said. READ ALSO: Why I Stopped Pensions For Former Governors, Speakers In Imo – Hope Uzodinma Ajakaye expressed the hope that as representatives of the people the lawmakers would exercise their discretion by instituting a public hearing “to further harvest wider opinions on the topic”. (NAN) The Petroleum Products Marketing Company has increased the depot price of petrol by N7.50, which likely lead to an increase of the pump price of the product. Independent marketers are expected to make price adjustment from November 13, 2020 are targeting a pump price of anything between N168 to N170 per litre. PPMC in an internal memo dated November 11, 2020 increased the depot price of petrol from N147.67 to N155.17 per litre. PPMC, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), put the landing cost of petrol in the November 11 memo at N123.89 per litre. Depot managers meanwhile are expected to buy from importers at N130 per litre. The government announced the removal of subsidy on petroleum products and since PPMC has announced several depot price increases for petrol after monthly reviews. In September, marketers increased the pump price a minimum of N158 per litre after the PPMC increased the depot. Increases were also made in five of the last six months.