Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, Corps Marshall Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), says the nation has learnt a lot from the October #EndSars protests during which lives and property were lost. Oyeyemi spoke on Thursday in Asaba, shortly after he inspected the FRSC annex office along the Onitsha-Asaba expressway which was razed by hoodlums on Oct. 21 during the protest. He however said that the commission would not be deterred from carrying out its statutory duties in spite the ugly incident. “A lot of lessons have been learnt, but we are back on the road. We have to do our work. “What happened here and across the nation during the protest is quite unfortunate. But we have to move on. “During the nationwide protests, the FRSC lost about 27 operational vehicles, while about 14 others were vandalised by hoodlums,” Oyeyemi said. The Corps Marshall disclosed that the FRSC and the Delta Government planned to rebuild the rented burnt property. He said he earlier spoke with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa after the property was razed, and the governor assured him of the state government’s support in rebuilding the property. “As you can see, the whole place has been razed. We have to fix it back. The building is a rented property,” Oyeyemi said. The Corps Marshall was accompanied on the tour by the Corps Public Education Officer, Mr Bisi Kazeem and the FRSC Delta  Sector Commander, Mr. Uchechukwu Wihioka. (NAN) The Nigerian Navy on Thursday announced the promotions of 203 senior Naval Officers, which had been approved by the Navy Board. The Director of Naval Information, Commodore Suleman Dahun, said in a statement that 122 Lieutenant Commanders had been promoted to the rank of Commander. He said 38 Commanders were also promoted to Captain, while 24 Captains were promoted to the Flag Rank of Commodore, and 19 Commodores promoted to the Flag Rank of Rear Admiral. Dahun said, “The Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas on behalf of officers, ratings and civilian staff of the Nigerian Navy, rejoices with these newly promoted officers and their families and charges them to rededicate themselves to their responsibilities and remain loyal to the nation and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari.” Among the new Rear Admirals are Akano Adesope, Kennedy Egbuchulam, Nnamdi Muogilim, Aminu Hassan, Uduak Ibanga, Bamidele Oluwagbamila, Zakariyyah Muhammad, Ibrahim Shettima, Idi Abbas, Mohammed Abdullahi, Istifanus Albara, Samson Bura, Olusola Oluwagbire, Mustapha Hassan, Patrick Nwatu, Habila Zakaria, Sulaiman El-Ladan, Baratuaipri Iyalla and Kohath Levi. Promoted to Commodores are Mohammed Wabi, Abolade Ogunleye, Mustapha Braimah, Yusuf Idris, Muhsin Abba, Vincent Gbaranwi, Madumom Ide, Suleiman Olorundare, Adedokun Siyanbade, Raheem Taofeek, Kabiru Tanimu, Johnson Adewoyin, Cajethan Aniaku, Anthony Kujoh, Abdulrahman Mohammed, Chinonyerem Oji, Adamu Yahaya, Chindo Yahaya, Kem Iheanacho, Jonathan Ajodo, Aminu Abdullahi, Usman Bala, Dickson Chigbata and Samuel Ogwu.