Democrat Joe Biden has taken the lead over President Donald Trump in the vote count in the key state of Pennsylvania by more than 5,000 votes. If he maintains the lead with a little less than five per cent of the votes in Pennsylvania yet to be counted, the former vice president is assured of victory in the race for the White House. On Tuesday night, hours after polls closed, Trump was ahead by more than 600,000 votes. But as votes that were mailed as against in-person votes, Biden started to narrow the president’s lead in Pennsylvania. In Philadelphia, a county in Pennsylvania that tilts towards Democrats, 20,000 votes are yet to be counted, while in the whole state, 130,000 voted are yet to be counted. The Democratic candidate is also in the lead in states like Georgia, Arizona and has been projected to have won in Michigan and Wisconsin. Trump won all five states back in 2016 when he contested against Hilary Clinton. Meanwhile, Biden has reported to have prepared a victory speech and is expected to address the country later on Friday. The Secret Service, which is responsible for presidential security has also been reported to have plans of increasing the security around the former vice president. At 77, Biden would be the oldest person to be ever elected president. His running mate Kamala Harris, would also be making history as the first female vice president. CNN is however quoting unnamed sources that Trump has no plans to concede and is alleging voter fraud. Ahead of the election, the president repeatedly refused to commit to a peaceful transition. His Chief of Staff, Mick Mulvaney has told the media there will be a peaceful transition Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has cancelled the N15,000 COVID-19 prevention fee the Abia State University charged students before they could return to school and sit for their first semester exams. It was widely reported in the media on Thursday that the university had imposed a N15,000 fee on returning students for COVID-19 prevention. The governor said, “Yesterday, I had a Town Hall meeting with students & management of Abia State University where a fee of N25,000 per student was proposed as medical fee but slashed to N15,000 to help ABSU put in place adequate measures to protect the soon to resume students from COVID-19 pandemic. READ ALSO: Abia University Charges Students N15k For ‘COVID-19 Prevention’ He said, “In that same meeting, I approved immediate bursary payment to students of Abia origin in ABSU, to alleviate impact of COVID-19 on them & enable them meet the medical fee obligations with ease. “However, after a deep review of the agreement & its likely effect on all the students & their parents, I’ve directed the immediate scrapping of the “pandemic prevention fee” by school management.” The governor said, “Our government will now go ahead to pay N30,000 to each Abia student in the institution as further support to them, their parents and guardians in this very difficult moment of economic downturn caused by the global health crisis. “Let me also add that we are proud of the progress made by the institution in the past 5 years and will continue to support them”.