Former Senate Leader, Victor Ndoma-Egba has lost his wife Amaka Ndoma-Egba in a car accident along Benini-Akure road. She was reported to have been on her way to a function in Akure, Ondo State on Friday when the accident occurred. The former senate earlier on Friday confirmed the incident to several media outlets. Ndoma-Egba has in the last few months suffered the loss of close family members and also had his house in Calabar, Cross River attacked by hoodlums during the EndSARS protests. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, says he is distraught after one of his security aides killed a newspaper with a stray bullet. The speaker who tweeted details of the event said he had reported it to the police and called for an investigation. He said in his tweets, “A horrible incident has taken place. This evening as I left the national assembly, I stopped as usual to exchange pleasantries with the newspaper vendors at the corner.” “Many of them have known me since I first moved to Abuja and it was a friendly exchange. Unfortunately, after the convoy set out in continuation of movement, unidentified men obstructed the convoy which got the attention of security men in the convoy who shot into the air to disperse them.” Some hours later, after getting to our destination, he said, “it was brought to my attention that someone was hit by a stray bullet, contrary to an earlier report by men in the convoy that they applied their security discretion to shoot in the air.” He said, “In the meantime; the officer who fired the fatal shot has been suspended from the convoy pending the conclusion of the investigation. “I am personally distraught about this incident and my deepest sympathies go to the victim, his family and Abuja vendors.” Gbajabiamila said, “For one of them to have been shot by my security detail is horrific and I cannot begin to imagine the grief and loss Ifeanyi’s family must feel on this sad day.  No family should have to go through this. “My value for human life and my respect for all people – irrespective of social economic status – is what endeared me to these vendors and these are the reasons why I stop my convoy quite often to connect with them.” He said, “I have caused a report to be made to the local police station and an investigation has commenced.”