The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar  Danbatta, has been commended for his role in community and national development. The NCC’s chief executive’s interventions were done through his Danbatta Charity Foundation (DCF), a non-profit organisation. A statement by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of public affairs said the Sarki Bai of Bichi and District Head of Danbatta, Isyaku Waziri and other beneficiaries of the DCF gave the commendation during the Quranic Graduation Ceremony. 21 students of Garkuwa Usman Community Primary School Islamiya, Danbatta Local Government Area, Kano State, at the weekend graduated at the ceremony. Adinde said, “While commending the EVC for being a pillar of support for the nation’s development, Waziri particularly praised him for the role he is playing at ensuring security in the local government among numerous other interventions in education, health and youth employment. “We are blessed to have someone like Prof. Danbatta, who has shown remarkable interest in the development of Danbatta. We can’t thank him enough for what he is doing at the grassroots. And he is doing us proud at the national level as our worthy ambassador,” said the traditional ruler. Fielding questions from newsmen, Danbatta disclosed that the foundation is currently sponsoring 10 young women studying different health-related courses at the Muslim Community College of Health, Sciences and Technology, Funtua, Kano, as part of efforts to empower members of the community through education and technology. He said the foundation has, for 15 years, sponsored different skill acquisition programmes, while a dialysis machine has been donated to the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH), among other interventions. “This school is one of the initiatives of Danbatta charity foundation. It is intended to be a source of support to our immediate community and the larger society in general, having, emulated the good examples set by other well-meaning Nigerians,” Danbatta said. The NCC boss, subsequently, called on well-meaning Nigerians to embark on community development activities in order to get rewards from Almighty God. The Lagos State Government on Tuesday advised citizens to strictly adhere to precautionary measures against COVID-19 infection to prevent a recurrence of lockdown of the economy. Professor Akin Abayomi, the State Commissioner for Health, said that resurgence of cases in Lagos might lead to reversal of strategical measures put in place by the state government to open up the economy. Abayomi warned that continuous flagrant disregard of safety guidelines by citizens portended danger and might lead to a second wave of new infections in Lagos. He also advised the citizens against unnecessary movement and social gatherings, saying that travelling into and outside the country should be discouraged, except if absolutely necessary. Abayomi said that many countries and cities were experiencing a second and third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, with a resultant spike in the number of cases and fatalities. The commissioner said many of the affected countries around the world have found it necessary to impose a second lockdown and restriction of movements, which have significant socioeconomic and security consequences. READ ALSO: Lagos New COVID-19 Cases Spikes Again “The first wave of Coronavirus started in December 2019 and swept through an unprepared world. “The first case of COVID-19 in Nigeria was recorded in Lagos on Feb. 27. Lagos has since become the epicentre of the outbreak in Nigeria with a record of 21,107 confirmed cases and 212 deaths from the virus till date. “The containment measures put in place at the time included COVID-19 testing, isolation and treatment, surveillance, total shutdown of the state for about 12 weeks and partial shutdown of social, economic and academic activities for over four months,” Abayomi said. The commissioner expressed concern that the use of face masks, social distancing and hand hygiene had reduced among citizens. READ ALSO: 3,604 COVID-19 Patients Still On Admission In Lagos He called for the reinforcement of the adoption and adherence of various preventive measures put in place by the state government to tackle the disease. “The erroneous belief that COVID-19 has been conquered and is no more in Nigeria should be discarded. “Based on our data, this assumption is invalid. “It creates a false sense of security among the citizens, causing many to abandon the use of face masks and other safety measures and protocols put in place by the government,” he said. According to him, though, the state has reached its peak as predicted, and a decline in the number of positive cases, citizens should not conclude that it is over. “COVID-19 is still very much with us as evidenced in the number of cases being recorded in the community daily and occasional deaths from severe complications. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Deaths Increase In Africa – WHO “This is the more reason why citizens should not relent in this regard, if we don’t want to experience a second wave of the disease,” he said. Abayomi said that the increased COVID-19 testing capacity of the state had been impactful in reducing community transmission. According to him, any citizen who fall within the case definition of COVID-19 infection should visit any of the dedicated sample collection sites in their local government or public laboratories to get the test done free of charge. (NAN)