Nigerian traders in Ghana on Wednesday called on the Nigerian government to evacuate them from Ghana. The traders, in a Save-Our-Soul letter delivered to the Chairman of the Nigerian Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, said they were seeking a secure and peaceful return to Nigeria. Gabriel Odu, NiDCOM’s Media, Public Relations and Protocol Unit, said the traders belonged to two associations in Ghana, the Nigerian Union of Traders Association in Ghana (NUTAG) and the National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS). According to Odu, the evacuation letter, endorsed by 753 traders in the two associations, was delivered by a delegation led by the President of NANTS, Dr. Ken Ukoaha. READ ALSO: Gbajabiamila Urges Ghana To Review $1m Business Capital For Nigerians In the letter, the traders explained that their evacuation had become necessary because of the constant and consistent harassment, intimidation, torture, threat to their lives and the total lockdown of their means of livelihood in Ghana. They said that their shops had been locked up for almost one year by Ghanaian authorities. “Diplomatic niceties at the highest level between Nigeria and Ghana have not yielded positive results. “Landlords are coming to ask us for rent. How do we pay with our shops locked up for so long? We are dying here”, the traders lamented in the letter. READ ALSO: Nigerian High Commission Attack: Ghana Will Pay For Damages – FG Receiving the delegation, Dabiri-Erewa called for peace, stressing the need for all relevant stakeholders to continually engage in peace talks. She said it was indeed sad that the traders` shops have not been reopened for almost a year, citing Ghana’s draconian regulations which breached ECOWAS Protocols on Free Trade and the Movement of Goods and Services. The NiDCOM boss pleaded with the traders not to allow tempers to rise as she would convey their message to the appropriate Nigerian authorities. She said that the Nigerian government would gladly welcome the traders back home. (NAN) The Federal Executive Council (FEC) during its weekly meeting on Wednesday approved the opening of a Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre in Abuja. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, who was one of those that briefed State House correspondents on the outcome of the meeting, said the centre would help to address the problem of unemployment among Nigerian youths. He said, “I presented two memos. Number one is on the National Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre here in Abuja and this is part of the efforts of the Federal Government of Nigeria to produce many entrepreneurs, particularly looking at the challenge of unemployment and unemployable citizens. “We came up with this plan to establish a digital innovation and entrepreneurship centre where millions of our citizens are going to be trained as entrepreneurs, particularly in ICT so that they will be future potential employers rather than being employees. “This is in partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the U.S.A. It has a programme called Regional Entrepreneurship Accelerated Programme (REAP), where it supports a country or an institution to produce many entrepreneurs in the area of their choice. “So, our focus, looking at our mandate in the ministry, is on the development of ICT and this centre will be managed by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), while the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy will provide the policy direction for the centre and supervise the implementation of the policy. “It is going to be completed in three years.” The minister also said that the Council approved the registration of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) so as to give them digital identity. He said: “the second memo is in relations with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). “As we all know that the NIMC Act 2007 makes it mandatory that each citizen must have a National Identity Number. Accordingly, the Act’s section 5 and section 27 emphasise that it could be an offence not to acquire the number. “Most of us here do not have the number, but they have at least a form of identification, an official one; either driver’s license or passport for travelling and many more. “But people in IDP camps do not have that usually; so we came up with a policy that will prioritise providing national identity to people living in the IDPs. “The policy has been entitled: National Policy for Digital Identification for Internally Displaced Persons.’’ According to Pantami, the digital ID will support government in establishing the total number of IDPs, make budgetary provisions for them, and assist in national planning with regards to their education, health and many more. He expressed the hope that the digital identification policy would enable government to reach out to IDPs across the country. “When it comes to social intervention being provided by the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, government will have an up-to-date record of IDPs; their number and locations and government will reach out to them easily through that database that will be domiciled at the National Identity Management Commission. “Based on the report during the formulation of the policy, we have around three million people living in IDP camps in Nigeria, which is more than 1 per cent of our population. “In addition, from the records that we have received in the course of the formulation, there is no single state in the country without IDPs; the highest number is in Borno State with 1.4 million people and the lowest is in Ondo State with 1,024 persons,” he said.