At least 50 well known Nigerian celebrities, activists and even sports personalities are being sued by Kenechukwu Okeke, a human rights activist, for promoting EndSARS protests that brought Lagos and other parts of the country to a standstill. Okeke filed what he termed criminal proceedings at an Abuja magistrate court in Abuja on Tuesday against 50 persons including Pastor Sam Adeyemi, 2face Idibia, Davido, Falz and Peter and Paul Okoye for promoting the #EndSARS protests. Also among those being sued are Kanu Nwankwo, Tiwa Savage, Folarin Falana and Aisha Yesufu. READ ALSO: You Thought We’re Weak For Disbanding SARS – Buhari Tells Nigerians Okeke in a tweet said about his lawsuit,  “Having initiated criminal proceedings against the #EndSARS riots promoters at exactly 1052hrs WAT, 09/11/2020, we shall ensure that same is diligently prosecuted in the interest of defence, public safety and public order. The Federal Republic of Nigeria is country of laws.” Okeke claimed that the defendants acted with intent to assist in the promotion of an unlawful assembly under the guise or composition of #EndSARS. READ ALSO: Court Sanctions The Freezing Of #EndSARS Sponsors Bank Accounts He also alleged that the defendants instigated some riotous and tumultuous persons to destroy his property. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has given  clarification on the recently published the Draft Consultation Document on the Deployment of Fifth Generation (5G) Mobile Technology in Nigeria. Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of public affairs, said in a statement on Tuesday that the Commission had not concluded plans for the deployment of Fifth Generation (5G) network. Adnde said the Draft Consultation Document for deployment of the 5G in Nigeria had been produced and uploaded on the Commission’s official website (www.ncc.gov.ng). This document defines the implementation plan for the deployment of 5G in Nigeria. It provides a background into the benefits of 5G technology and outlines the Commission’s plans and strategies for a successful implementation of 5G in Nigeria. Adinde said the document presents guidelines for the relevant areas of the technology and the expectations of the Commission from the operators. This Plan takes into account the expectations of all the stakeholders in the communications industry in Nigeria. Nigeria, he said, “undertook 5G trials in selected locations within the country in collaboration with an Operator in 2019. The trial, among others, was to study and observe any health or security challenges the 5G network might present. “The Commission also has an ongoing engagement with the academia while at the same time funding 5G related research projects, all in a bid to ensure the nation is provided with the best in terms of research findings and policy input, to drive the implementation and deployment of 5G technology in Nigeria.” He said, “These engagements are targeted at enabling the development of robust policies, which will put Nigeria in the best place to contribute maximally to the digital economy drive of the nation. “The specific targets of these engagements include the development of policies which have the potential of accelerating the deployment of 5G networks in Nigeria, maximizing the productivity and efficiency benefits of 5G to the nation, creating new opportunities for Nigerian businesses at home and abroad and encouraging in-country investment and ensuring the operations of 5G networks are in conformity with international standards.” For the avoidance of doubt, he said, as with the previous technologies such as 1G, 2G, 3G and 4G, the Commission will not commence 5G deployment without due consultation with all relevant stakeholders.