Two Nigerians Oye Owolewa, and Esther Agbaje were some of the victorious candidates in the general elections in the United States of America. Owolewa a Nigerian-American was declared winner of the shadow election in the District of Columbia (DC). Owolewa, a PhD holder from the Northeastern University, Boston, scored a total of 164,026 votes, which represents 82.84 per cent of the total votes cast in DC for the 2020 election. READ ALSO: 9 Nigerians Contesting In Tuesday’s US Elections Esther Agbaje won the Minnesota House of Representatives seat in the election on Tuesday. Agbaje won a total of 17,396 votes to defeat her Republican Party opponent, Shilepsky who scored 4,128 votes. READ ALSO: US Election: Trump Claims Victory As Vote Counting Continues Agbaje would be representing District 59B in the Minnesota House of Representatives on the platform of the Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party (DFLP), an affiliate of the U.S. Democratic Party. The 35-year-old daughter of an Episcopal priest and a librarian, both Nigerian immigrants, defeated longtime state Representative Raymond Dehn in the party’s primary in August Former US Vice President Joe Biden has taken the lead over President Donald Trump in Michigan and Wisconsin, while the president still leads in Pennsylvania, in the presidential race. Donald Trump, the Republican Party candidate needs to win all three states to remain president while his Democratic Party rival needs to win only two of three states. Biden had earlier been projected to win the state of Arizona, which was won by Trump in 2016 when he ran against Hilary Clinton. READ ALSO: US Election: Trump Claims Victory As Vote Counting Continues Votes are still being counted in all three states, particularly votes by mail, which will most likely favour the Democratic Party. Michigan’s top election official said on Wednesday morning the state’s presidential results could be known by the end of the day. “We’ll know much more in the hours to come, and we’ll have a much more complete picture of Michigan by the end of today,” Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson said on CNN. Politico reported that hundreds of thousands of mail-in ballots had yet to be counted in the state, most of which is concentrated in Michigan’s largest counties and population centres. READ ALSO: US Elections: Joe, Not Donald Is Africa’s Friend That counting is ongoing, she said, declining to give a more precise estimate of how many ballots remain other than to say the number is “certainly larger than any margin between the candidates right now.” “We’re on track to have a much more complete picture, if not the vast majority of jurisdictions reporting out by the end of today,” she said.