Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has cancelled the N15,000 COVID-19 prevention fee the Abia State University charged students before they could return to school and sit for their first semester exams. It was widely reported in the media on Thursday that the university had imposed a N15,000 fee on returning students for COVID-19 prevention. The governor said, “Yesterday, I had a Town Hall meeting with students & management of Abia State University where a fee of N25,000 per student was proposed as medical fee but slashed to N15,000 to help ABSU put in place adequate measures to protect the soon to resume students from COVID-19 pandemic. READ ALSO: Abia University Charges Students N15k For ‘COVID-19 Prevention’ He said, “In that same meeting, I approved immediate bursary payment to students of Abia origin in ABSU, to alleviate impact of COVID-19 on them & enable them meet the medical fee obligations with ease. “However, after a deep review of the agreement & its likely effect on all the students & their parents, I’ve directed the immediate scrapping of the “pandemic prevention fee” by school management.” The governor said, “Our government will now go ahead to pay N30,000 to each Abia student in the institution as further support to them, their parents and guardians in this very difficult moment of economic downturn caused by the global health crisis. “Let me also add that we are proud of the progress made by the institution in the past 5 years and will continue to support them”. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has overtaken President Donald Trump in the votes count in battleground state of Georgia by at least 917 votes. Both candidates have roughly 49.4 per cent of the votes, a margin which could lead to demand for a recount by the losing side. Trump’s Republican Party has already lost court cases trying to halt vote counts in states like Michigan  Pennsylvania and Georgia. The lead means Trump’s path to victory has effectively been cut off, with Biden more likely than ever to emerge as president-elect. Vote counting continues in at least five states including Georgia, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Arizona and Nevada. Trump needs to win at least four of those state and can only afford to lose the state of Nevada, which he did not win in 2016. He won all the other four states in 2016. Joe Biden on the other hand does not need to win Georgia to emerge victorious in the election.