US President Donald Trump, seeking a second term in office has vowed to mount a legal challenge in the battleground state of Pennsylvania as soon as the election is over. The Republican Party, under which he is contesting is still hoping the Supreme Court will reconsider its decision to allow the state to continue receiving absentee ballots for three days after Election Day. On Sunday, the president who spent most of Saturday campaigning in different parts of Pennsylvania, said, “as soon as that election’s over, we’re going in with our lawyers.” Meanwhile, his Democratic Party rival Joe Biden plans to spend Monday campaigning in Pennsylvania and Ohio. Biden and running mate, Kamala Harris, will campaign in all four corners of Pennsylvania, which many analysts are predicting will be the candidate’s surest path to victory. Reuters reports that Joe Biden will rally union members and members of the African-American community in the Pittsburgh area before being joined for an evening drive-in rally in Pittsburgh by singer Lady Gaga. Biden also will make a detour to bordering Ohio, spending time on his final campaign day in a state that was once considered a lock for Trump, who won it in 2016, but where polls now show a close contest. Democrats have pushed mail-in voting as a safe way to cast a ballot in the coronavirus pandemic, while Trump and Republicans are counting on a big Election Day in-person turnout. “We’re going in the night of – as soon as the election is over – we’re going in with our lawyers,” Trump told reporters without offering further explanation. A record-setting 92.2 million early votes have been cast either in-person or by mail, according to the US Elections Project, representing about 40 per cent of eligible voters. The early surge has led Michael McDonald of the University of Florida, who administers the project, to predict a record turnout rate of about 65 per cent of eligible voters, the highest rate since 1908. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 111 new cases of COVID-19, bringing the total now infections now 62,964. The NCDC made this known via its verified Website on Sunday. The centre also reported two deaths, bringing the total to 1,146 recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. The agency said Lagos reported 49 new infections, 30 in the FCT, 11 in Rivers and 10 in Plateau. Others are Ogun-four, Kaduna and Oyo-three each Osun-one. The agency said out of the 62,964 confirmed cases, 58,790 have been discharged. The agency also said that since the beginning of the pandemic in February, more than 627,600 samples had been tested by the centre. The NCDC said that it has activated a multi-sectoral national Emergency Operations Centre (EOC), at Level III to coordinate the national response activities. ”It is crucial to limit the risk of COVID-19 infection across all ages. Take responsibility to protect children as school resumes. “Encourage your children to wear a mask. Wash their hands frequently Cough/ sneeze into you elbow and  report when feeling sick,” it advised. (NAN)