The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, says he is distraught after one of his security aides killed a newspaper with a stray bullet. The speaker who tweeted details of the event said he had reported it to the police and called for an investigation. He said in his tweets, “A horrible incident has taken place. This evening as I left the national assembly, I stopped as usual to exchange pleasantries with the newspaper vendors at the corner.” “Many of them have known me since I first moved to Abuja and it was a friendly exchange. Unfortunately, after the convoy set out in continuation of movement, unidentified men obstructed the convoy which got the attention of security men in the convoy who shot into the air to disperse them.” Some hours later, after getting to our destination, he said, “it was brought to my attention that someone was hit by a stray bullet, contrary to an earlier report by men in the convoy that they applied their security discretion to shoot in the air.” He said, “In the meantime; the officer who fired the fatal shot has been suspended from the convoy pending the conclusion of the investigation. “I am personally distraught about this incident and my deepest sympathies go to the victim, his family and Abuja vendors.” Gbajabiamila said, “For one of them to have been shot by my security detail is horrific and I cannot begin to imagine the grief and loss Ifeanyi’s family must feel on this sad day.  No family should have to go through this. “My value for human life and my respect for all people – irrespective of social economic status – is what endeared me to these vendors and these are the reasons why I stop my convoy quite often to connect with them.” He said, “I have caused a report to be made to the local police station and an investigation has commenced.” The National Human Rights Commission panel investigating alleged human rights violations by the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad has ordered the Nigeria police to provide reports on the whereabouts of two brothers, whose matter is before the panel. The panel gave the order at its hearing in Abuja on Thursday. The two brothers held by the police since December last year are Mr. Matthew Ella and Mr. Patrick Ella. The inspector-general of police and the intelligence response team were listed as respondents. Counsel to the complainants, Mr. Timothy Ahua, told the panel that Matthew was arrested by some police officers at his home in Ollo Edumega District in the Okpokwu Local Government Area of Benue on Dec. 20, 2019. Ahua alleged that the two brothers had been held since then without trial. The counsel said that he applied for the enforcement of Matthew’s fundamental human rights, which was pending in court but that the police refused to produce the victim in court. “On March 12, 2020, some officers of the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response Team from Abuja stormed the victim’s village. “The shot his brother Patrick in the leg and took him to an unknown destination. “They also made away with 25 cows belonging to Matthew Ella,” Ahua told the panel. When asked where the complainants were, Ahua said that they were still being detained by the police. Ahua named Insp. Waziri Mustapha, Alhassan Emmanuel and one Insp. Glory as knowing the whereabouts of the two brothers. However, Counsel to the police, Mr Godwin Ijeomah, told the panel that the police needed time to determine the whereabouts of the two brothers. The panel Chairman, Justice Suleiman Galadima, told the police to ensure that the two brothers were produced at the next sitting of the panel. He adjourned until Dec. 2 for the police to report on the whereabouts of the two brothers. (NAN)