The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has said that Nigeria is not experiencing a spike in COVID-19 infections. The Director-General of NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, disclosed to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Abuja while giving an update on the disease in the country. “For over two months we fought between a hundred to two hundred cases a day – but we really haven’t seen a spike in our national data. “There has been a recent increase in a few cases in Lagos, mostly among the younger people, younger populations, and we are monitoring that very closely,”  Ihekweazu explained. According to him, NCDC has worked very hard to contain the spread of the virus. “If you look at our testing numbers, yes they have not gone up as high as we would have loved to, but apart from a small decrease during the peak of the demonstrations a few weeks ago, we have managed to maintain our testing numbers of about 30,000 tests per week. “So generally, I would still say, we need to be cautious and continue with the preventive measures but we have not seen a spike in the country, “ he stated. Ihekweazu said that the announcement of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccines against the COVID-19 gave Nigeria a significant “ray of hope”. He, however, pointed out that many processes needed to be carried out on the two vaccines before they could be used. The NCDC boss said that the centre was also working to make sure that Nigerians fully understood the value of the vaccines. Meanwhile, Ihekweazu said that there was no case of COVID-19 outbreak in the various orientation camps of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). He explained that two cases were detected before the infected corps members got into the NYSC camp. President Muhammadu has described former President Goodluck Jonathan’s service to Nigeria as bringing honour and goodwill to the country. The president was congratulating Jonathan on his 63rd birthday in a statement signed by Femi Adesina, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity. The statement read, “On behalf of the Federal Government and Nigerians in general, President Muhammadu Buhari warmly felicitates with former President Goodluck Jonathan on his 63rd birthday, November 20, 2020, congratulating him for a life of service that has brought honour and goodwill to the country. “The President notes, with appreciation, the peculiar and remarkable climb of the former president on Nigeria’s political ladder, and dedication that has kept him working most recently as ECOWAS envoy to bring peace to the Republic of Mali.” Adesina said, as the former Nigerian President turns 63, “President Buhari prays that the Almighty God will grant Dr Jonathan longer life, good health and more wisdom to keep serving the nation and humanity.”