A federal high court in Abuja has sanctioned a request from  the Central Bank of Nigeria to freeze the bank  accounts of 19 individuals and a public affairs company linked to the #EndSARS protests. Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the high court granted the request was filed by the CBN on October 20. According to the ruling  “A mandatory order is made empowering the plaintiff/applicant to direct the head office of Access Bank of Nigeria Plc, Fidelity Bank Plc, First Bank of Nigeria Plc, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, United Bank for Africa Plc and Zenith Bank Plc to freeze forthwith all transactions on the 20 bank accounts listed for a period of 90 days pending the outcome of investigation and inquiry currently being conducted by the Central Bank of Nigeria. “It is, however, directed that the 90-day freezing order, when it lapses, may be renewed upon good cause shown by the applicant. “It is also directed that any person, whether artificial or natural, that is affected by this order may apply to the court to have his grievance or complaint heard by the court. The suit is adjourned till February 4, 2021.” The individuals affected by the order to include Bolatito Oduala, Chima Ibebunjoh, Mary Kpengwa, Gatefield Nigeria Limited, Saadat Bibi, Bassey Israel, Wisdom Obi, Nicholas Osazele, Ebere Idibie, Akintomide Yusuf, Uhuo Promise, Mosopefoluwa Odeseye and Adegoke Emmanuel. Others include Umoh Ekanem, Babatunde Segun, Mulu Teghenan, Mary Oshifowora, Winifred Jacob, Victor Solomon, and Idunu Williams. President Muhammadu Buhari has sent out a message of condolence to the people of Bauchi on the death of Ali Kwara, a vigilante leader and hunter famous for helping law enforcement track criminals. In a statement signed by Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Friday, the president expressed sorrow over the loss of Kwara. The statement by Shehu mentioned Kwara’s “movie-like exploits against bandits, armed robbers and terrorists are well documented in virtually all the 19 Northern states, died in Abuja where the government had brought him to take over his medical treatment.” Shehu said, “Last night, the Presidency made available a plane to take the corpse to Dutse Airport for its planned burial in his home town, Azare in Bauchi State.” The president said, “On behalf of the government and the people of the entire country, I condole with the people of Bauchi State and their government following the sad exit of this extraordinary citizen who devoted his entire life to assisting law enforcement officials in their fight against criminals.” According to him, “Ali Kwara will not be forgotten for roles he played in subduing hardened criminals and warlords in our forests. Thanks to his efforts, several of such criminals were lucky to be reformed while many more have been made to face justice. Few of such brave men are found in a generation. May Allah grant him Aljannah.”