Gunman have killed the District Head of Gidan Zaki, in Zango Kataf, Kaduna  Haruna Kuye and his son, Destiny Kuye. The attackers also left his wife with injuries from a machete and daughter with a gunshot injury. The attack took place in the early hours of Tuesday. The governor of the state, Nasir El-Rufai, has however directed Commissioner of Police and Director of the Department of State Services (DSS) to team up with the military forces and fish killers of the District Head and other victims of the latest attacks. Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, said in a statement on Tuesday that the military under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven had informed the Kaduna State Government of the killing of the District Head of Gidan Zaki, Mr. Haruna Kuye and his son, Destiny Kuye in the early hours of today (Tuesday, 17th November 2020). READ ALSO: Two Southern Kaduna Communities Sign Peace Pact He said, “They were killed in their residence at Gidan Zaki, Zangon Kataf local government. The District Head’s wife, according to the military, sustained machete wounds on her hand while his daughter had a gunshot wound on her finger. “The security report further stated that the act was carried out by about five men wielding AK-47 rifles and machetes, who also tried to burn the house and a vehicle.” The commissioner said, “The military added that location that three empty cases and a live round of 7.62mm special ammunition were recovered at the scene. Troops in collaboration with other security agencies are carrying out investigations and trailing the assailants. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai has condemned the killings as evil and violation of the sanctity of the human lives by enemies of peace who must be fished out and made to face the wrath of the law.” READ ALSO: Insecurity: Buhari At Kaduna Summit, Sues For Peace Among Indigenes
He said, “The Governor who condoled the Kuye family and the Atyap Traditional Council, prayed for the repose of the souls of the District Head and his son. “Malam El-Rufai praised the late Haruna Kuye for his contributions to the peace-building efforts in Zangon-Kataf.” “Security agencies have also reported attacks in Giwa LGA where armed bandits attacked Fatika, Kaya and Yakawada villages. Two persons were killed and some kidnapped,” he said.