President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 23rd virtual meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Ministries of Works and Housing; Health, Environment, Aviation as well as Industry, Trade and Investment are expected to make presentations during the meeting. The Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, joined the president at the Council Chamber for the the meeting. Others physically present at the Council Chamber are Ministers of Information, Lai Mohammed; Finance, Zainab Ahmed; Justice, Abubakar Malami; Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire; Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola; Aviation, Hadi Sirika; Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo and Environment, Mahmood Muhammad. The Head of Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, and other ministers are participating in the weekly council meeting from their various offices in Abuja, online. The cabinet observed a minute silence in honour of late Babatunde Lawal, who until his death, was a Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Secretary to Government of the Federation and Deputy Secretary of cabinet. (NAN) Second republic governor of Kaduna State, Balarabe Musa, is dead. He died on Wednesday morning and is expected to be buried later in the day. He was a leading member of his People’s Redemption Party (PRP), and was in the second republic aligned with the party of Aminu Kano. Senator Shehu Sani, a member of the PRP confirmed the death on Twitter on Wednesday. Sani tweeted, “Alhaji Balarabe Musa has died.May Allah forgive his souls and grant him Aljanna firdausi. Amin.” Musa was born on August 21, 1936 in Kaya, Kaduna State. He studied at Zaria Middle School from 1947 to 1952 and at the Institute of Administration, Zaria, 1952 to 1953. Musa, who was an accounts clerk and a school teacher, held various managerial positions related to accountancy from 1960 to 1976, while studying at different colleges in London to gain additional qualifications. He was elected governor of the old Kaduna State in 1979 on the platform of the PRP, a party founded by late Mallam Aminu Kano. READ ALSO: Nigeria At 60: We’ve Not Fared Well – Balarabe Musa As governor, he was was prevented from constituting a cabinet by the state house of assembly, dominated by the opposition National Party of Nigeria (NPN) members. Eventually the House impeached him in June 1981, making him the first Nigerian state governor ever to be impeached. He was the PRP candidate for the presidency in the 2003 elections, and later Chairman of Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP). On August 31, 2010, Balarabe-Musa quit active politics due to health issues and announced his immediate resignation from chairmanship of the PRP.