The World Health Organisation (WHO), Regional Office for Africa located in Brazzaville, Congo, says there are over 1.8 million confirmed COVID-19 cases on the African continent. The UN health agency gave the update on its regional official Twitter account @WHOAFRO. WHO stated on its dashboard that there were over 1.8 million confirmed COVID-19 cases on the African continent- with more than 1.4 million recoveries and 43,000 deaths cumulatively. South Africa, Ethiopia and Kenya were countries with highest number of reported confirmed cases. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Deaths Increase In Africa – WHO According to the dashboard: South Africa reported 726,823 cases and 19,411 deaths; Ethiopia 96,583 cases with 1,478 deaths, while Kenya had 56,877 reported cases and 1,013 deaths. Meanwhile, WHO has warned against a claim that eating garlic could prevent COVID-19 virus. “Garlic is healthy food that may have some antimicrobial properties. However, there is no evidence from current outbreak that eating garlic has protected people from new coronavirus”. READ ALSO: Africa CDC Warns Of Second COVID-19 Infections Wave In Africa In addition, the UN health agency warned against a claim that stem inhalation was an effective treatment against COVID-19. “Stem inhalation does not cure COVID-19 and it is not a safe treatment as it may cause serious burns, no matter how hot the steam, it will not reach the virus present in the cells of the infected individuals. “Keep safe by staying up to date with accurate information and be aware of misinformation on social media. “Get your facts from trusted sources so you can accurately determine your risk and take precautions,” it stated. (NAN) Filmamakers in Kano are dissociating themselves from Rahama Sadau, a Kannywood actress, who posted controversial pictures on social media. The motion Potion Practitioners Association of Nigeria (MOPPAN0, an umbrella body of northern filmmakers (popularly known as Kannywood), said in a statement that it was deeply concerned about the recent pictures shared by Sadau on the social media. The said pictures, Al-Amin Ciroma, the national public relations officer of the association, said, were trending on various social media platforms. He said, “The post has however sparked a lot of criticism, which resulted to blasphemous comments against the holy Prophet of Islam- Muhammad (SAW) on twitter and other social media handles. “This, according to the MOPPAN national secretariat, is condemnable and unacceptable. It will be recalled that on 2nd October, 2016, the apex body of northern filmmakers have suspended the embattled Sadau, in violation of the association’s rules and regulations for immoral behaviours leading to ‘on-screen hug with certain hip-hop star, Classic.” According to Ciroma, “After two years into the suspension, the Kano State Censorship Board (KSCB), throughbits boss, Mallam Isma’il Na’Abba Afakkallah, on 8th January 2-18, gave Rahama an unconditional pardon, to join her peers in Kannywood, a move that was countered by the state’s branch of MOPPAN, on 15 January, 2020 by its chairman, Mallam Kabiru Maikabba.” He said, “In this prevailing circumstance, MOPPAN is hereby re-iterating its intitial stand on Rahama Sadau, and calling all other Kannywood guilds and association to ensure compliance. “It also calls on all professional bodies in Kannywood, the Hausa communities and the Diaspora, to note that it has dissociated itself from Rahama’s insolence.”