The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reported 212 new infections of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the country on Thursday. The NCDC made this known via its verified website. Nigeria has so far tested 697,544 persons since the first confirmed case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic was announced on Feb. 27, 2020. The public health agency noted that the 212 new cases brings the total number of infected people in the country to 64,728. It added that no additional death was recorded in the last 24 hours in the country. The NCDC announced the discharge of 53 patients from isolation centres across the country. It revealed that the new 212 infections were reported from 16 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It indicated that Lagos State recorded the highest number of confirmed infections with 71, while Imo and Plateau recorded 26 infections each, while FCT had 19 new infections. Other states with new infections are: Ondo-17, Kaduna-14, Rivers-9, Oyo-9, Katsina-6, Osun-4, Bauchi-2, Ekiti-2, Nasarawa-2, Ogun-2, Kano-1, Kwara-1 and Taraba-1. The NCDC stated that “till date, 64,728 cases have been confirmed, 60,790 patients discharged and 1,162 deaths have been recorded in 36 states and the FCT.” (NAN) President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana has announced a 7-day mourning period in honour of the country’s former president  Jerry Rawlings, who passed away on Thursday. This is just as President Muhammadu Buhari has sent out his heartfelt condolences to government and people of Ghana over passing of the country’s former who died at the age of 73. Buhari, in a statement signed by Femi Adesina, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity said that the entire African continent will sorely miss the sterling qualities of the great leader. The statement read, “President Buhari believes the passion, discipline and moral strength that the former Ghanaian leader employed to reposition his country over many years continue to reverberate across the continent and beyond. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Former Ghanaian President, Jerry Rawlings Is Dead “The President notes, with commendation, the unique role the former President played in strengthening political institutions in his country and Africa, stimulating the economy for sustainable growth, and vociferously championing the African cause by urging many leaders to work towards interdependency on the global stage, especially in areas of competitive advantage.” The Ghanaian president, in a statement he personally signed said he had directed that all national flags to fly at half-mast for the next seven days in all parts of the country. “I have declared seven days of national mourning from Friday, 13 November to Friday, 20th November for former President Rawlings. The Vice President and I have suspended our political campaign for same period. “The deep sympathies of Government and the people of Ghana to his wife, the former First Lady, Nana Rawlings, the children and family of the late president in these difficult times,” he added.