President Muhammadu Buhari has paid tributes to Mamadou Tandja, the former President of Niger Republic who passed away on Tuesday at the age of 82. The president paid the tribute to Tandja after learning of his death according to a statement signed by Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity. READ ALSO: Mali Declares 3 Days National Mourning For Late Former President Shehu quoted Buhari as saying, “I am extremely sad to know of the demise of Mamadou Tandja, the former President of Niger. Niger Republic has lost a veteran leader with rich military, political and administrative experience.” Buhari praised the former President’s contributions in the military and political spheres of his country, and wished his friend and counterpart, President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger Republic, the family and well-wishers of the late President Tandja, the strength and fortitude to bear the loss. “The thoughts of the government and people of Nigeria are with the entire people of Niger in this period of sadness,” President Buhari said. Diego Maradona has died from a heart attack just days after turning 60. The Argentinian football legend died at home, his lawyer said, just two weeks after having surgery on a blot clot in his brain. Widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time on the pitch, his life off the pitch was equally notorious – amid battles with drug and alcohol addiction. Maradona won the World Cup with Argentina in 1986, having knocked England out of the tournament in a match which saw him score the famous ‘Hand of God’ goal. He also achieved league success with Italian side Napoli, winning the Serie A title in 1987 and 1990, along with an Italian Cup in 1987 and a Uefa Cup in 1991. But it was also during these years that his addiction to cocaine took hold. In 1991, the year he left the club, he was banned for 15 months for drug violations. In 1994 he was thrown out of the World Cup in America after failing a drugs test, and in 1999 and 2000 he was taken to hospital suffering heart problems. The Argentine news outlet Clarin broke the news on Wednesday afternoon UK time, describing the news of Maradona’s passing as having a ‘worldwide impact’. The sad news was confirmed by Maradona’s lawyer. Soon, tributes were pouring in from all over the world of football. Maradona left hospital on November 11 just eight days after being admitted for emergency brain surgery. The iconic former Argentinian footballer was driven away from the private Olivos Clinic just before 6pm on November 11 as hundreds of fans of photographers tried to get a glimpse of him. Maradona was hospitalised the previous week and had to have an emergency operation to remove a blood clot from his brain. Credit: Daily Mail