Nigeria has recorded 156 new cases of COVID-19 in 10 states and the Federal Capital City (FCT, the Nigeria Centre For Disease Control (NCDC) has disclosed. With the new infections the NCDC, on its verified website on Friday, put the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases at 64,884. According to the centre, 146 COVID-19 patients who have recovered from the disease have been discharged from isolation centres across the country in the past 24 hours. It said one coronavirus-related death was recorded within the same period. READ ALSO: PTF Worried Over Mental Health Of COVID-19 Survivors-Mustapha The NCDC stated that Lagos, the epicentre of the disease in the country, led with 70 new infections, followed by the FCT with 22 and Kaduna State with 18. Rivers had 15;  Plateau, 11;  Ogun, 10;  Bauchi and Katsina had three each; Kano had two and  Ekiti  and Osun had one each. The NCDC said of the 64,884 patients infected with the virus , 60,936 cases have been treated and discharged while 1,163 deaths have been recorded. Nigeria has so far tested 697, 544 people since the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was recorded on Feb. 27, 2020. The NCDC said that it had activated a multi-sectoral national Emergency Operations Centre at Level III to coordinate response activities across the federation. (NAN) The remains of Uwaila Omozuwa, the 100-level microbiology undergraduate at the University of Benin, who was raped and attacked violently in Benin-city, was laid to rest on Friday. Omozuwa was buried at the ‘Third Cemetary’ in New Benin, Benin-city, with family members, friends, and well-wishers in attendance. READ ALSO: We’re Working With Police To Bring Uwa’s Killers To Book – Pastor Adeboye Prior to the interment, a funeral service was held for her at the Redeemed Christian Church of God (Peace Sanctuary), Edo Province 10 Headquarters, located along WAEC road, Aduwawa. She was allegedly gang-raped and bludgeoned in a church at the Agbor park axis in Benin-city in May. READ ALSO: Nigerian Government Says It’s Ready To Move Against Rapists She died days later at the hospital while recovering from injuries sustained during the violent attack. In August, the police paraded six persons arrested in connection with the crime. CREDIT: CHANNEL TV