President Muhammadu Buhari, in a good will message marking the International Day For Eliminating Violence Against Women, has said his government is working on measures to enhance the response to rape and other forms of gender-based violence. In the message released by Garba Shehu,  the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Buhari said government’s efforts to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly lock-down measures similarly adopted by other countries worldwide, further exacerbated the already dire situation of Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (SGBV) in Nigeria. He said the International Day of Eliminating Violence against Women therefore, presents a unique opportunity to highlight actions taken by the government to address violence against women and girls. The President said governments at federal and state levels, had made a number of responses. First is the  establishment of a National Tool for Gender-based Violence Data Management. He said, “Our Ministry of Women Affairs in collaboration with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) under the Joint EU-UN Spotlight Initiative and other critical stakeholders developed the National Tool for Gender-based Violence Data Management in Nigeria.” A Committee on eradication of sexual, gender-based violence was also set up. Buhari said, “On 23 July 2020, we inaugurated an inter-ministerial committee on eradication of sexual and gender-based violence in response to worsening cases of sexual and gender-based violence in the country arising from the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown measures that were imposed to curb the spread of the virus. “As part of its mandate, the Committee is expected to conduct a review of all the existing laws and policy instruments touching on offences of rape, child defilement and gender-based violence and develop for adoption, national prevention of sexual abuse/violence strategy for the period of 2021- 2025, “that identifies and encapsulates measures to enhance response to rape and gender-based violence, set new targets for prevention, intervention and treatment.” Third was the development of Gender-Based Policy Guidelines in Emergency Response. He said, “Clear indications were made of an absence of gender-focused responses during emergencies such as the COVID-19. “This gap has been addressed through the development of Policy Guidelines for Emergency Response, facilitated under the Joint EU-UN Spotlight Initiative by the UN Women and Implementing Partners in the Spotlight States particularly the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Sokoto and Ebonyi States. These policies when implemented, ensure that vulnerable persons, particularly women and children are not left behind in emergencies such as COVID-19.” The president also mentioned improving the economic status of women and promoting Fundamental Human Rights and Freedom. He stated, “To mitigate the socio-economic of the coronavirus pandemic, the government has prioritized vulnerable groups, including women, in the provision of medical and social assistance. “Our administration remains committed to eradicating poverty and enhancing growth and development for women and girls. In the last year, over one million Nigerians have been enrolled into National Social Register of poor and vulnerable households to enable them to access needed social assistance.” Buhari said, “Our administration believes that the promotion and protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms are critical to the attainment of the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development. “It is for this reason that I urge the international community to support the mandate and operations of the Human Rights Council in its quest to strengthen institutions in relation to gender equality and empowerment, as well as the elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence against women and girls.