Filmamakers in Kano are dissociating themselves from Rahama Sadau, a Kannywood actress, who posted controversial pictures on social media. The motion Potion Practitioners Association of Nigeria (MOPPAN0, an umbrella body of northern filmmakers (popularly known as Kannywood), said in a statement that it was deeply concerned about the recent pictures shared by Sadau on the social media. The said pictures, Al-Amin Ciroma, the national public relations officer of the association, said, were trending on various social media platforms. He said, “The post has however sparked a lot of criticism, which resulted to blasphemous comments against the holy Prophet of Islam- Muhammad (SAW) on twitter and other social media handles. “This, according to the MOPPAN national secretariat, is condemnable and unacceptable. It will be recalled that on 2nd October, 2016, the apex body of northern filmmakers have suspended the embattled Sadau, in violation of the association’s rules and regulations for immoral behaviours leading to ‘on-screen hug with certain hip-hop star, Classic.” According to Ciroma, “After two years into the suspension, the Kano State Censorship Board (KSCB), throughbits boss, Mallam Isma’il Na’Abba Afakkallah, on 8th January 2-18, gave Rahama an unconditional pardon, to join her peers in Kannywood, a move that was countered by the state’s branch of MOPPAN, on 15 January, 2020 by its chairman, Mallam Kabiru Maikabba.” He said, “In this prevailing circumstance, MOPPAN is hereby re-iterating its intitial stand on Rahama Sadau, and calling all other Kannywood guilds and association to ensure compliance. “It also calls on all professional bodies in Kannywood, the Hausa communities and the Diaspora, to note that it has dissociated itself from Rahama’s insolence.” Twitter has imposed restriction on a tweet by US President Trump in which he alleges attempt by unnamed persons to “steal the election”. “We are up BIG, but they are trying to STEAL the Election. We will never let them do it. Votes cannot be cast after the Polls are closed!” the tweet reads. Twitter quickly flagged the message, preventing users from commenting, liking or retweeting it. The company added a warning:  “Some or all of the content shared in this Tweet is disputed and might be misleading about an election or other civic process.” It attached a link directing users to its Civic Integrity Policy, which among others, forbids the usage of the platform to manipulate or interfere  in “elections or other civic processes”. “We placed a warning on a Tweet from @realDonaldTrump for making a potentially misleading claim about an election. “This action is in line with our Civic Integrity Policy,” Twitter explained. NAN reports that on Oct. 15, Trump’s re-election campaign’s Twitter account was briefly restricted, causing an outcry from Republican lawmakers who accused social media companies of acting like “speech police” and vowing to hold Twitter responsible. Twitter temporarily blocked the @TeamTrump account from sending tweets after it posted a video about Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden’s son that it said violated its rules. The video referred to a New York Post story from Wednesday that contained alleged details of Hunter Biden’s business dealings with a Ukrainian energy company and said the former vice president had met with an adviser of the company. (NAN)