Twitter has imposed restriction on a tweet by US President Trump in which he alleges attempt by unnamed persons to “steal the election”. “We are up BIG, but they are trying to STEAL the Election. We will never let them do it. Votes cannot be cast after the Polls are closed!” the tweet reads. Twitter quickly flagged the message, preventing users from commenting, liking or retweeting it. The company added a warning:  “Some or all of the content shared in this Tweet is disputed and might be misleading about an election or other civic process.” It attached a link directing users to its Civic Integrity Policy, which among others, forbids the usage of the platform to manipulate or interfere  in “elections or other civic processes”. “We placed a warning on a Tweet from @realDonaldTrump for making a potentially misleading claim about an election. “This action is in line with our Civic Integrity Policy,” Twitter explained. NAN reports that on Oct. 15, Trump’s re-election campaign’s Twitter account was briefly restricted, causing an outcry from Republican lawmakers who accused social media companies of acting like “speech police” and vowing to hold Twitter responsible. Twitter temporarily blocked the @TeamTrump account from sending tweets after it posted a video about Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden’s son that it said violated its rules. The video referred to a New York Post story from Wednesday that contained alleged details of Hunter Biden’s business dealings with a Ukrainian energy company and said the former vice president had met with an adviser of the company. (NAN) The presidential election is turning out to be a tight race and may be determined by battleground states of Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, yet, Donald Trump is claiming victory. Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden is however projected to win the state of Arizona which was won by President Donald Trump, the Republican Party candidate. READ ALSO: Win or Lose, Trump Is A Danger To Africa Donald Trump is projected to have won two key states, Texas and must-win Florida, both rich in electoral votes. Biden has expressed confidence he will win the election, telling supporters in Delaware the election is “not over until every ballot is counted” and insists: “We are on track to win.” Trump tweeted that the Democrats were trying to steal the election. In a White House address, he later declared an unsupported victory. Millions of votes are yet to be counted. READ ALSO: US-Nigerians Home And Abroad Should Seek End To Trumpism – Patience Akpan-Obong, US-based Professor The president has also vowed to go to the Supreme Court to stop the counting of votes in some key battleground states. “Frankly we did win this election,” he claims, speaking in subdued tone. He suggests – without evidence – that election “fraud” has occurred. “This is an embarrassment to our country,” he says, adding that he plans to go to the Supreme Court to fight election results.