The World Health Organisation (WHO), Regional Office for Africa in Brazzaville, Congo, says there are over two million confirmed COVID-19 cases on the African continent. The UN health agency gave the update on WHO African Region COVID-19 Dashboard. WHO stated that there were more than two million confirmed COVID-19 cases on the African continent – with more than 1.7 million recoveries and 48,000 deaths cumulatively. READ ALSO: Africa COVID-19 Cases Hit 1.8m – WHO South Africa, Algeria and Kenya were countries with highest number of reported confirmed cases. According to the dashboard, South Africa reported 757,144 cases and 20,556 deaths; Algeria had 70,629 cases and 2,206 deaths while Kenya  reported  72,686 reported cases and 1,313 deaths. The dashboard also stated that Nigeria had reported 65,693 cases and 1,163 deaths from COVID-19. International news organisation, the Cable News Network (CNN), has responded to allegations by Lai Mohammed, the minister of information that its report on the Lekki Toll Gate shooting was irresponsible. The news network said in a statement on Thursday that it stands by the report, which it said was carefully and meticulously researched. The network said the report was based on testimony from dozens of witnesses, and photos and video it obtained and geolocated. READ ALSO: #ENDSARS: DJ Switch Will Be Exposed Soon – Lai Mohammed CNN said, “It painted a picture of how members of the Nigerian army and the police shot at the crowd, killing at least one person and wounding dozens more. “CNN verified photos and videos acquired from multiple eyewitnesses and protesters using timestamps and other data from the video files.” READ ALSO: CNN Story Reveals Details Of Lekki #ENDSARS Shooting It said, “Video footage shows soldiers who appear to be shooting in the direction of protesters. And accounts from eyewitnesses established that after the army withdrew, a second round of shooting happened later in the evening. “Prior to publishing the report, CNN tried multiple times to elicit comment from the Nigerian army and police. A Lagos State police spokesman declined to comment because of an ongoing investigation.”