The chairman of the Independent Electoral Commission, Mahmood Yakubu, has handed over the leader of the commission to AVM Ahmed Muazu, in anticipation of his confirmation for a second five-year term by the Senate. In a brief handover ceremony on Monday, Yakubu said he couldn’t remain in office beyond November 9, the day he was confirmed, five years earlier. He said, “You may recall that the current Commission was inaugurated in three batches. The Chairman and five Commissioners were sworn-in on 9th November 2015, followed by another six Commissioners on 7th December 2016 and one more Commissioner on 21st July 2018. “The Commission is a constitutional body whose members are appointed for five years which may be renewed for a second and final term. This means that my tenure and that of the first set of five Commissioners ends today.” READ ALSO: Buhari Reappoints Mahmood Yakubu As INEC Chairman He said, “As you are already aware, the renewal of my tenure as Chairman of the Commission has been announced, subject to confirmation by the Senate. Our work as election managers requires us to enforce the law, regulations and guidelines. “In doing so, we must demonstrate strict respect for, and compliance with, the Constitution of Nigeria and subsidiary laws. Consequently, it will be inappropriate for me to remain in office beyond today, 9th November 2020, without confirmation by the Senate and swearing to another oath of office as provided by law.” Yakubu said, “Pending the conclusion of the statutory process, the remaining National Commissioners have resolved that AVM Ahmed Mu’azu (rtd) will oversee the affairs of the Commission. READ ALSO: INEC To Resume Voter Registration Early Next Year “It is therefore my pleasure to hand over to him in the interim. We have worked as a team for the last four years. Therefore, there is nothing new to anyone of them.” Yakubu expressed appreciation for the support of the Commission members, the Resident Electoral Commissioners, the Secretary to the Commission, the Director-General of the Electoral Institute, Directors, members of the technical team, heads of the various security agencies deployed to INEC and all staff of the Commission nationwide. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Sunday reported 399 new cases of COVID-19 infections, with 255 of the cases in Lagos. The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 had warned last month that the protests in Lagos could lead to a new surge of infections. While no new deaths were recorded, the country has reported that number of cases since late August. Lagos State now has a total of 21,910 confirmed cases, 20, 585 discharged and 1,105 active cases. READ ALSO: Lagos Discovers More COVID-19 Cases In Another School The latest update from NCDC showed that Nigeria now has 64,090 confirmed cases, with 59,910 patients discharged and 1,154 deaths recorded. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 27 new cases, Oyo State had 10  Kaduna State had five, Ondo State had two and Kano State had just one new case. READ ALSO: Africa COVID-19 Cases Hit 1.8m – WHO No new COVID-19 deaths were reported during the period as the national death toll remains 1,154 for the fourth consecutive day.