President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed appreciation to the Republic of Chad in helping fight insecurity around the Lake Chad Region promising to reciprocate the country’s steadfastness. The president said on Tuesday that Nigeria would always be there for the Republic of Chad, as the two  countries are not only neighbours but also brothers. Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity quoted the president in a statement on Tuesday after receiving a Special Envoy from His Excellency, President Idris Deby Itno of Chad. Buhari said Nigeria appreciated the support she was getting in tackling insecurity from the neighbouring country. “We are aware of the problem Chad has with Libya, which supports some Chadian rebels, trying to destabilise the country. The instability in Libya after 42 years of Muammar Gaddafi affects all of us in the Sahel region. From Mauritania to Central Africa Republic, Gaddafi recruited gunmen, who learnt to do nothing else than to kill. When the former Libyan Leader was killed, the gunmen escaped with their arms, and are wreaking havoc all over the place now,” President Buhari said. Stressing that Nigeria was grateful to Chad for the diverse kinds of support given to combat the Boko Haram insurgency, the President assured that Nigeria world always back up Chad in its local and international aspirations. The Special Envoy, Mr. Amine Abba-Sidick, Minister of Foreign Affairs, African Integration and Chadians Abroad, conveyed a message from his President, whom he said sent fraternal greetings to President Buhari and Nigerians in general. The United Kingdom Parliament on Monday took steps supporting the sanctioning of Nigerian government officials and military officers who they believe participated in the shooting of #EndSARS protesters at Lekki Toll Gate last month. Members of the House of Commons tabled the debate after receiving an e-petition calling for sanctions against the Nigerian government. READ ALSO: We’ve Not Been Petitioned Over #ENDSARS Lekki Shooting – Nigerian Army The petition had well over 200,000 signatures and got unanimous support from members of parliament. The petition raised the shootings at Lekki, Oyigbo, Delta, and in the aftermath of the protests, the freezing of protesters accounts. READ ALSO: FG Wants CNN Sanctioned Over #ENDSARS Lekki Shooting Report MPs were of the view that state actors and their family members in Nigeria should not have access to the freedom, liberty and security they deny their citizens at home in the UK.