The National Examinations Council (NECO) has released the 2020 National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) results. The Registrar and Chief Executive of NECO, Professor Godswill Obioma, presented the results to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu in Abuja on Monday. Releasing the results, the examination body also set the national cut off marks at 142. It said 16,713 candidates were absent due to the #EndSARS protests that rocked the country recently, while a total of 70,580 candidates sat for the examination. Of that number, 24,416 candidates passed, scoring a minimum of 66. Obioma, during the presentation, named the three students that scored  the highest marks. They are Umeonyiagu Chinua Crucifixio from Anambra State who scored 199, Onwuamanam Udochukwu from Enugu State with 198 and Salaam Mariam Aderemilekun from Lagos State with 197. The Federal Government is concluding plans to post 3,700 teachers to states across the country and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) through its Federal Teachers Scheme (FTS). Dr. Hamid Bobboyi, the Executive Secretary of Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), disclosed this while monitoring conduct of the FTS Computer Based Test (CBT) in Abuja on Monday. Bobboyi monitored the examination at the Computer Based Test (CBT) centres of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board(JAMB) at Kogo and Bwari centres. He said the deployment of teachers across the country was part of federal government’s effort to bridge the gap in the education sector, particularly in the area of manpower. According to him, out of a total of 14,729 candidates that sat for the scheme’s 2020/2021 test, 3,700 candidates, 100 per state, would be selected based on state’s cut off marks for the programme. He said the test, which took place in 74 JAMB approved centers across the country, was meant to assist states find teachers for rural schools. The executive secretary noted that there was dire need for more teachers to attend to the over 42 million pupils in Nigerian basic schools. “As far as public schools are concerned, we have problem in terms of numbers that can adequately meet the population that we have. “With about 1.4 million teachers in the system, we need more teachers to cater for the over 42 million pupils we have,’’ he said. While disclosing that over 350,000 applicants applied for the federal scheme across the country and FCT, Bobboyi called on state governments to absorb the FTS teachers. “Some states refused to absorb such teachers and as such, we urge them to do so as an internship scheme. “What happens latter depends on the state where they serve. “After verification exercise, UBEC will ascertain the authenticity of their certificates before training commences for them,’’ he said. UBEC had in September 2020, opened its online application portal for interested candidates to apply for recruitment into the FTS. FTS is a two-year intervention programme established by the Federal Government in 2006. It is aimed at assisting states to address shortage of teachers at the basic education level. (NAN)