The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) says it has uncovered the diversion of 250million at Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), Sokoto State. In a statement published on its website on Tuesday, the anti-graft agency said, its investigation revealed that the fraud was carried out when deductions meant for third parties such as the State Board of Internal Revenue and over-payment deductions were diverted on the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) and channeled into the private accounts of an individual and a company. The statement reads, “The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has uncovered the diversion of a huge sum of money belonging to the Federal Government into private pockets. “The money, in the sum of over Two Hundred and Fifty Million Naira (N250m) was diverted from the personnel cost account of the Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), Sokoto State.” The ICPC stated the account staff behind the fraudulent diversion of public fund had been arrested and is being questioned, adding that the commission was working to recover the stolen funds from the culprit. “The Commission has already taken into custody the kingpin in this criminal endeavour who is an Accounts staff of UDUTH.  He is being questioned  to unravel all those behind this fraudulent act. “ICPC has also commenced efforts to recover the proceeds of this fraud through the seizure of exotic cars and real estate properties from the main culprit. The commission said the account staff who masterminded the fraud took advantage of IPPIS platform that “allows Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs) to edit salaries that have been processed by the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) before they are finalised or paid. Thereafter, he substitute the genuine destination account numbers with those of his co-conspirators before payment. It added that investigation into the fraud was ongoing and that appropriate actions would be taken by the Commission upon conclusion. President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday said there was need for cooperation and compliance to agreed process to achieve strategic Monetary Union among ECOWAS Member States. President Buhari, who made this call in a series of tweets on Tuesday said he wasn’t happy that some members of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (also known by its French acronym, UEMOA) had decided to replace CFA Franc with the ECO ahead of other ECOWAS Member States. The UEMOA members include, Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte D’Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. The president, however, didn’t name any specific country in his Tuesday tweets. President Buhari said that while Nigeria was committed to monetary union to promote regional prosperity and sovereignty, such ambition must be pursued in compliance with set standards. He said, “It gives me an uneasy feeling that the UEMOA Zone wishes to take up the Eco in replacement for its CFA Franc ahead of other ECOWAS Member States. It‘s a matter of concern that a people with whom we wish to go into a union are taking major steps without trusting us for discussion. “Nigeria fully supports and is committed to a monetary union with the right fundamentals—a union which guarantees credibility, sustainability and overall regional prosperity and sovereignty. But we must do things properly and ensure absolute compliance with the set standards. Urging African countries to comply with agreed process to realise a strategic Monetary Union as an ECOWAS bloc, he said “We cannot ridicule ourselves by entering a union to disintegrate, potentially no sooner than we enter into it. We need to be clear and unequivocal about our position regarding this process. “We must also communicate same to the outside world effectively. We have all staked so much in this project to leave things to mere expediencies and convenience. “We must proceed with caution and comply with the agreed process of reaching our collective goal while treating each other with utmost respect. Without these, our ambitions for a strategic Monetary Union as an ECOWAS bloc could very well be in serious jeopardy”.