Senior Special Assistant to the president on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu has accused some traditional rulers from President Muhammadu Buhari’s home state, Katsina, of collaborating and aiding banditry. Shehu, who made this statement while speaking on Channels TV’s Sunrise Daily on Monday, said some traditional rulers were complicit in collaboration with bandits. He said, “It is not that we are making direct accusations on anyone but it is also true that even in the president’s native state of Katsina, some traditional rulers have been found complicit in collaboration with the bandits to harm their own people.” Shehu added that efforts by the Nigerian Airforce to clear out bandits were at some point frustrated as informants were helping them to escape. “At some point, the Nigerian Air Force had to put a number of aircraft in Katsina, they are still there. In the early part of that operation attacking Zamfara which then was the epicentre. “They realised that once aircraft took off from Katsina airport, before it got to Zamfara for operation, telephone calls would have been made and targets would have disappeared. In the end we were forced to be flying from distant places like Kaduna and Kano in order to undertake operations in Zamfara.” “All of us as citizens have a duty to the nation to provide information to our armed forces,” he said. Recently, Katsina State has been the hotbed of banditry in country. Last week over 50 persons were reportedly killed in different bandit attacks, though president Buhari visited the state and warned bandits to surrender their weapons. The presidency on Sunday described the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) as a mere irritant and featherweight group that has always been antagonistic to President Muhammadu Buhari. The group had on Sunday, in a statement signed by its Convener, Professor Ango Abdullahi, former vice chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), criticised President Buhari for failing the north and allowing insecurity fester under his watch However, reacting to the statement on Sunday, Femi Adesina, Senior Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, said the NEF was just a name and did not exist as a group. He said, “We are not surprised by this latest statement by Prof. Abdullahi, and our past position on what his group represents remains unchanged: a mere irritant and featherweight. “The former vice chancellor signed the statement under the banner of Northern Elders Forum (NEF). Hearing that title, you would think the body was a conglomeration of true elders. “But the truth is that NEF is just Ango Abdullahi, and Ango Abdullahi is NEF. It is a quasi-organisation that boasts of no credible membership, and its leader is akin to a General without troops. “Before the 2019 presidential election, the one-man army called NEF had shown its antipathy against President Buhari, and its preference for another candidate. They all got beaten together. “NEF is merely waving a flag that is at half-mast. President Buhari steadily and steadfastly focuses on the task of retooling Nigeria, and discerning Nigerians know the true state of the nation. They don’t need a paper tiger to tell them anything.”