The Presidency on Sunday said that President Muhammad Buhari broke no law by holding a virtual National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Federal Executive Council (FEC) Chamber as he could hold meetings anywhere in the Villa. Garba Shehu, Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, said this while responding to those criticising President Buhari for holding the APC NEC in the FEC chamber. Shehu reiterated that President Buhari broke no law by holding a virtual party meeting in the villa and no one could dictate to the president where to hold meetings. “It is necessary that we put records in their correct perspective concerning the recent meeting held by the National Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress, APC, which has, unfortunately drawn criticism due to lack of understanding. “The stubborn opinion held by the critics of the administration is that President Muhammadu Buhari had called a political meeting in the “hallowed” chamber of the Federal Executive Council, as if there is a law that says the President is barred from holding meetings in certain sections of the vast Presidential Villa. “Since the President lives in the Villa, no one can, legally speaking, choose or dictate to him where he can sit to hold meetings. So, what is wrong in the President presenting himself before a camera and a TV screen in a digital conference at a given location within the Villa?” Shehu said. He noted that the president held the virtual meeting in villa to maintain social distancing, adding that the APC conference hall was too small for the meeting. Shehu said, “Just for the sake of the argument, this meeting, we say emphatically, was not convened at the Council Chamber. It was virtual, not a physical meeting. “Why was it a virtual meeting? The idea was to observe social distancing in view of health concerns. Knowing how small the conference hall of the party is, social distancing would only have been observed in the breach. “President Buhari was billed to address the meeting from his office (just any of his offices) and chose the Council Chamber where the digital facilities are located, and other members, including the bulk of National Executive Committee members, state party leaders and members of the National Assembly were all linked using video conference calls. You saw them all on TV. “Yes, it is true that Governors and leaders of the National Assembly joined the President at the Chamber from where he spoke. But the larger body of the members in attendance were all connected via video calls. “Do not forget that these are not the normal times in view of the COVID-19 circumstances in which we have found ourselves.  President Buhari placed health and safety above courtesy to the party by not going to its headquarters. “In the end, a wise thing had been done because the President wants to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus disease. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, Garba Shehu, has said that there is no rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and All Progressive Congress (APC) national leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The president had backed the sack of APC National Working Committee (NWC) and appointment of a caretaker committee, chaired by Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, a decision rumoured to be targeted at reducing the influence of the Tinubu camp in the party. In a statement on Saturday, Shehu said the decision to dissolve the APC NWC and appoint a caretaker committee was to save the party from collapse as party members scramble for its leadership. READ ALSO: Buhari Dissolves APC NWC As Yobe Governor Heads Caretaker Committee Shehu, who accused the opposition of spreading the rumour that President Buhari and Tinubu are at loggerhead, said “The very essence of the requests put to the Emergency National Executive Committee meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) by President Muhammadu Buhari, which were unanimously approved aim to pull back the party, faced with an existential crisis from the brink of collapse, follow the constitution and take everyone along. “While this action has been widely accepted with great relief by lovers of democracy and the rank and file of the membership, we are concerned that political vulturism masquerading as “smart analysis” is selling the commentary that this is a Buhari-Tinubu “showdown.” Nothing can be farther from the truth. Shehu added that President Buhari and Tinubu, who are the founding fathers of the ruling party, were inspired by democratic norms and national interest and their relationship remains strong. “To put the records straight: In the formation of this great party and giving it leadership, President Buhari and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who are reckoned as the founding fathers of the APC are both inspired by democratic norms, national interest and not at all by partisan motivations. These are the qualities that have made them move past cynical distractions. “They are in touch with one another. Their relationship remains as strong as ever and between the two of them, only they know how they manage their enviable relationship. “Try as hard as they could, the opposition parties have used all their intellectuals and their supporters in the media to break this relationship and have failed. And they won’t.”