Former chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), John Oyegun, has said that the party is becoming a threat to the legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari and his government. Oyegun spoke on Saturday while reacting to the leadership crisis that has rocked the ruling party following a court of appeal order that upheld the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole as national chairman of the party. In a statement on Saturday, he said the recent development in the party was a brazen subversion of the party’s principles of internal democracy and flagrant violation of every rule of decent political engagement. “Our own political party, the APC, is fast becoming the single most dangerous threat to the legacy of our government and our president. “In the last few months we have watched how the party has brazenly subverted its own principles of internal democracy and flagrant violation of every rule of decent political engagement in a manner that makes everyone associated with its promise of change liable to be accused of either hypocrisy or apostasy,” Oyegun said. The former chairman who led the APC to its major victory in the 2015 general elections said it appeared that the country was regressing in its democratic journey under the APC-led government. He said, “We must therefore remember that our victory in the 2015 Presidential elections and the peaceful transfer of power that followed was a major testament of progress in our nation’s journey towards real democracy. “This unprecedented democratic achievement has since inspired progressive forces all over Africa and has become a standard by which democracy is measured in the rest of the continent. “Unfortunately, it appears that while other countries around us have marched ahead in the democratic journey, we have largely regressed.” Calling on the APC national executive committee (NEC) to meet and set up a caretaker panel, Oyegun said, “There is a most urgent need for the party NEC to meet and institute for the party a caretaker committee (even if we have to invoke the doctrine of necessity), whose main responsibility will be to arrange for a special national convention”. The ranks have the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State have been depleted in Edo State following the defection of 14 members of the state House of Assembly, 18 Local Government chairmen and 196 councillors, along with the entire cabinet to the People’s Democratic Party. The governor of the state Godwin Obaseki had on Thursday announced his defection to the PDP after his disqualification from contesting the governorship primaries in the APC. Obaseki has in the meantime been screened to contest for the PDP governorship primary election which will take place on June 25, 2020. Followed by a large crowd of supporters and political appointees, he arrived at the headquarters of the PDP, Wadata House around 3pm on Saturday for screening ahead of the primaries. In a tweet shortly after arriving PDP, he wrote, “I am currently being screened by the @OfficialPDPNig Screening Committee to participate in the Edo State Primary election scheduled for June 25, 2020.” He had also announced his defection to the PDP on Twitter,  writing, “I have officially joined the @OfficialPDPNig to advance my ambition to seek re-election as Governor of Edo State. “I, as always, remain committed to engendering good governance and sustainable development of our dear state.”