The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday that 31 more people have died from complications arising from COVID-19. The latest NCDC update also reported 490 new cases of COVID-19 in the country while the total death toll now stands at 455. This is just has as the number of confirmed cases has risen to 17,148 with 5,623 recovered and discharged from treatment centres. Lagos State once again reported the highest number of new cases with 142 followed by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with 60 new cases. Bayelsa State also saw an increase in new cases with 54 positive tests results, while Rivers State had 39 new cases. In Delta State, 37 new cases were reported, there were 30 in Oyo State, 26 in Kaduna State,  23 in Imo State , 19 in Enugu State, 17 in Kwara State and 11 in Gombe State. Ondo State reported 10 new cases, while Bauchi State had eight, Ogun had seven, Borno had six and Benue had one new case. The Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, has said that he is yet to join any political platform to seek reelection. There have been speculations that Obaseki who was disqualified from the party’s governorship primary election by the All Progressive Congress (APC) screening committee last week will be joining the PDP for his reelection. However, in a tweet on Wednesday, Obaseki, who announced his resignation from the APC yesterday, dismissed rumour that he had joined the PDP, when he disclosed that he had not joined any political platform for now. Obaseki said the safety of Edo State was his top priority and that he was focused on combating the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the state. “I have not moved to a new platform yet to seek re-election. My focus now is to control the spread of the coronavirus (#COVID19) pandemic, which is ravaging our country and threatening our healthcare system”, Obaseki said. Edo State has recorded 620 cases of COVID-19 and 27 deaths. Three days ago, Obaseki had in a statement announced that the partial lockdown in Edo State still remained effective. He said, “In view of the up-coming elections and to reduce infection transmission rates during political gatherings, I have issued a gazette that provides guidance on how political parties can conduct their activities. “There remains a restriction of gatherings for more than 20 persons. However, where higher numbers of persons are required to gather, permit with specified location, guidelines and supervision may be granted by the @EdoStateGovt. “Even though we had only implemented a partial lockdown in #EdoState, however, in line with the Presidential Task Force recommendations for states, the curfew starting from 10pm to 4am subsists.”