Nigerian controversial musician, Afeez Fashola, popularly known as Naira Marley has vowed that he and his followers will henceforth boycott Executive Jets. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Executive Jet Services, Sam Iwuajoku, had called Naira Marley and his crew members “a bunch of useless people” in a letter of apology to the Federal Government, shortly after the airline was suspended for flying the musician to Abuja for a concert in spite of the COVID-19 lockdown. In a tweet on Tuesday, Naira Marley, who claimed he had more than 20,000 followers who patronise Executive Jets every month said he and his followers would not patronise the flight company anymore since the CEO called them useless. He said, “Do you know that over 20,000 Marlians travel with executive jet a month. We won’t be using your useless airline again for calling us useless. Thank God we didn’t crash on that flight sha because we nearly did.” He also noted that the name of his younger brother, who was a member of his entourage during the trip was Babatunde Fashola, the name that seemed to have led the CEO of the airline to believe that the said flight was to fly the Nigerian Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, to Abuja on the said day. The Federal government had announced the suspension of Executive Jets Services on Monday during the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja. The minister of Aviation Hadi Sirika, who announced the suspension, said for giving false information to obtain approval to fly, the airline, ExecuJet Services, jad been suspended, adding that the pilots would be sanctioned and that the operators would be heavily fined. Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state has resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Obaseki had met with President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday before announcing his decision. Speaking with journalists at the presidential villa, Obaseki said he would pursue his second-term bid on another platform. On June 14, the governor said he would disclose his next step after meeting with the president following his disqualification from the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election in Edo. Jonathan Ayuba, chairman of the APC screening committee for the Edo governorship poll, said the panel disqualified Obaseki over a “defective” certificate. Atiku Abubakar, former vice-president, had asked Obaseki to join the PDP, and making way for him to get the party’s ticket. The governor met with Nyesom Wike, Rivers state governor, and Emmanuel Udom, Akwa Ibom governor, (both members of the PDP) at the weekend. Obaseki had been at loggerheads with Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of the APC who supported him in 2016. Oshiomhole is believed to be backing Osagie Ize-Iyamu who was cleared to contest the APC primary election in Edo. Credit: TheCable