Following the order of Honourable Justice A.I. Chikere of the Federal High Court, Abuja division, the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has taken over assets owned Umaru Baba Abdullahi, the Chief Promoter of Doggi Group Limited over an indebtedness of more than  N440m. This followed an order by Justice A.I Chikere of the Federal High Court  Abuja on June 5, 2020. A statement by the Head of Corporate Communications at AMCON, Jude Nwauzor named Juliet Benson of Benson Reeds Legal Practitioners as its Receiver who moved in to enforce the order on Thursday June 18, 2020. AMCON took possession of the assets, which include properties situated at Plot 3810, Cadastral Zone A04, Asokoro District, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja and Plot 1274, Cadastral Zone B07, Katampe Hills, Katampe District, Abuja. The case of Doggi Group Limited and its promoter have been a protracted issue because the loan was purchased during the first phase of Eligible Bank Assets (EBA) purchase from Union Bank Plc way back in 2011. Since then, AMCON has offered the obligor a good measure of olive branches and explored all avenues to resolve the matter amicably, but the obligor, and his company, Doggi Group Limited have remained recalcitrant and unwilling to repay the huge debt to the Corporation. Nwauzor in the statement said, “Yes, we enforced on the properties today as ordered Justice Chikere’s court, and are grateful to the Federal High Court for working on behalf of Nigerians to recover some of the debts owed the country by a few individuals despite the challenges posed by the dreaded Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic to institutions including the judiciary. “Like we have always said in the past, our priority at AMCON has never been to take over anybody’s properties or assets. Our mandate is to recover Nigeria’s money in the hands of these obligors. Overtime however, we have observed that the obligors enjoy hiding under some legal technicalities to delay even the repayment arrangement they negotiated and signed. He added, “When you have held several meetings and arrived at an agreement but the obligor decided to make a U-turn by reneging, it leaves AMCON with no other option than to approach the court. In the case of Doggi Group Limited and its promoter, AMCON did everything any responsible and law abiding organistaion ought to do to help the promoter and his business continue to no avail.” According to AMCON officials, the enforcement on the properties of Doggi Group Limited and Alhaji Umaru Baba Abdullahi is one of the many others that would take place in the coming days, despite the interference in business activities by COVID-19. The Federal Government has said that the resumption of domestic flights in the country scheduled for June 21 is no longer feasible. The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 had on June 1 announced that the second phase of easing of COVID-19 lockdown would allow domestic flights to resume from June 21. The airports scheduled to commence domestic operations on the said date included, Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja, Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano, Omagwa International Airport, Port Harcourt and Sam Mbakwe Airport, Owerri. However, speaking at the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja on Thursday, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Capt Musa Nuhu, who represented Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, said, “June 21st is not a feasible date to resume domestic operations. He said to resume domestic flight operations in the country due to pressure would be disastrous. “The civil aviation authority despite pressures coming from all quarters will not approve the start any day until we are sure and we confirm that we are ready to start in a safe, secure, organised and efficient manner. To do otherwise is disastrous for all of us. Nuhu added that if the aviation industry was opened in a hurry, the industry would be guilty of spreading COVID-19 He said, “If we open the industry when we are not ready, and we are guilty of spreading coronavirus, God forbid we have any incident, I believe the government will come hard on us and it is going to be counterproductive and disastrous for the industry.”