The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta has reassigned a number top management staff at the Commission as he sets to strengthen its regulatory activities. Danbatta, who only recently was reappointed for a new five-year term by President Muhammadu Buhari, seems determined to position the country’s telecoms regulatory agency for even greater accomplishments. READ ALSO: President Buhari Reappoints Danbatta As NCC Boss Those affected by the redeployment  include the Director, Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Department, Mr. Efosa Idehenwho who is now Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau; and the Director, Public Affairs Department, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, who is to now serve as Director, Research and Development department. Others are the Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, who is now the new Director, Public Affairs Department and the Director of Research and Development (R and D) Department, Ephraim Nwokonneya, who is now the new Director, Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Department. Former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajomobi, has died at a Lagos hospital after battling with COVID-19 for several weeks. The former governor who was said to have underlying health conditions was hospitalised at the First Cardiology Consultant Hospital. Exactly one week ago, reports on social media had speculated about his state of health and even rumoured to have died. READ ALSO: Confusion, Anxiety Over Ajimobi’s Health He was however said to have been in intensive care at the hospital where he was hospitalised along with his wife who had also tested positive to COVID-19. Ajimobi, 70, was a former managing director of National Oil and Chemical Marketing Company, a subsidiary of Shell Petroleum. While in hospital, he was named the acting national chairman of the All Progressives Congress by the party’s National Working Committee. President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday presided over a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party that dissolved the NWC. Governor of Yobe Mai Mala Buni was unanimously adopted as the chairman of the APC Caretaker Committe with Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger and Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun as committee members.