Senator Adebayo Osinowo representing Lagos East Senatorial Zone in the Senate is dead after succumbing to an illness. Osinowo was a member of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) was the chairman of  the senate committee on commerce, industries and investment. Osinowo who was 64 at the time of his death previously served in the Lagos House of Assembly. While the nature of the illness he suffered has not been released to the public reports say that he died at the First Cardiology Consultants Hospital in Lagos, where he was admitted for COVID-19 complications. Osinowo’s death makes it the fourth time a senator is dying in recent months. Among those who have died are Benjamin Uwajumogu, Ignatius Longjan and Rose Oko. The Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has said that passengers must arrive airport three hours before flight once resumption of flight commence on June 21. Both local and international flights have been shut down since March as one of the measures to curtail the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. In preparation for flight resumption, however, FAAN has announced via its official twitter handle on Monday that one of the modalities for flight resumption was that passengers must be in the airport three hours before any flight. According to FAAN, the three hours arrival of passengers to airport before flight is for proper safety check to prevent spread of coronavirus pandemic. “#COVID-19 Flight Resumption Protocol for Passengers: You are advised to arrive at the Airport 3 hours before your flight due to the new COVID-19 safety checks”, FAAN said. The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 had announced that the second phase of easing of COVID-19 lockdown would allow domestic flights to resume from June 21. The airports to commence domestic operations on the said date include, Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja, Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano, Omagwa International Airport, Port Harcourt and Sam Mbakwe Airport, Owerri.