The Minister of Communications, Dr. Isa Pantami has asked the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta to work towards boosting the country’s digital economy as more individuals and organisations have increasingly become reliant on digital platforms because of covid-19 experience. The Minister spoke on Monday when the management of the NCC led by Danbatta, who was recently appointed for a second five-term, paid him a courtesy visit. Pantami called Danbatta to work more harmoniously with the Ministry and agencies towards ensuring effective implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) as well as thorough implementation of the new National Broadband Plan (NBP), 2020-2025. He said  “The success of the Commission is our collective responsibility. While we, as a Ministry, do our best to formulate general industry policy and supervise the activities of the Commission, I will urge the NCC family to be united, remove all lines of demarcation, ensure justice, fairness in all decisions and above all, ensure harmonious relationships.” Pantami said the focus of President Muhammadu Buhari was currently to boost digital economy, which, he said, has become even more important following the experience of COVID-19 pandemic that has left many individuals and organisations relying more on digital platforms for work and collaboration. “So, we expect the NCC, as the telecoms Regulator, to take the issue of digital economy very seriously and give it all the attention it deserves within Commission,” he said. Speaking earlier, the EVC appreciated the Minister’s role in his reappointment and reiterated his commitment to taking the Commission to greater heights. “I consider my reappointment as the EVC of NCC for another five years, as an honour and a show of the confidence the Hon. Minister and the President have in our efforts at NCC in the last five years. We would like to assure the Hon. Minister of our commitment, as a Commission, to work with the Ministry and other Agencies under the Ministry’s supervision towards advancing the frontiers of digital economy in Nigeria,” the EVC said.