The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Sunday reported 490 new cases of COVID-19 taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 24,567. The NCDC in its daily update also announced seven more deaths due to the coronavirus disease. The death toll is now 565 and those discharged from the different treatment are 9,007. Lagos State reported the highest number of new infections with 118, followed by Delta State that recorded 84 new cases. Ebonyi State recorded 68 new cases while the number of cases in the FCT rose by 56. Plateau had 39 cases, Edo reported 29 and Katsina had 21. In Imo State 13 new infections were reported, 12 in Ondo State, 11 in Adamawa State, eight each in Osun and Ogun states and six in Rivers State. Kano State reported five cases, Enugu, Bauchi and Akwa Ibom states had three each while Kogi, Oyo and Bayelsa states had one each. The Presidency on Sunday said that President Muhammad Buhari broke no law by holding a virtual National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Federal Executive Council (FEC) Chamber as he could hold meetings anywhere in the Villa. Garba Shehu, Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, said this while responding to those criticising President Buhari for holding the APC NEC in the FEC chamber. Shehu reiterated that President Buhari broke no law by holding a virtual party meeting in the villa and no one could dictate to the president where to hold meetings. “It is necessary that we put records in their correct perspective concerning the recent meeting held by the National Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress, APC, which has, unfortunately drawn criticism due to lack of understanding. “The stubborn opinion held by the critics of the administration is that President Muhammadu Buhari had called a political meeting in the “hallowed” chamber of the Federal Executive Council, as if there is a law that says the President is barred from holding meetings in certain sections of the vast Presidential Villa. “Since the President lives in the Villa, no one can, legally speaking, choose or dictate to him where he can sit to hold meetings. So, what is wrong in the President presenting himself before a camera and a TV screen in a digital conference at a given location within the Villa?” Shehu said. He noted that the president held the virtual meeting in villa to maintain social distancing, adding that the APC conference hall was too small for the meeting. Shehu said, “Just for the sake of the argument, this meeting, we say emphatically, was not convened at the Council Chamber. It was virtual, not a physical meeting. “Why was it a virtual meeting? The idea was to observe social distancing in view of health concerns. Knowing how small the conference hall of the party is, social distancing would only have been observed in the breach. “President Buhari was billed to address the meeting from his office (just any of his offices) and chose the Council Chamber where the digital facilities are located, and other members, including the bulk of National Executive Committee members, state party leaders and members of the National Assembly were all linked using video conference calls. You saw them all on TV. “Yes, it is true that Governors and leaders of the National Assembly joined the President at the Chamber from where he spoke. But the larger body of the members in attendance were all connected via video calls. “Do not forget that these are not the normal times in view of the COVID-19 circumstances in which we have found ourselves.  President Buhari placed health and safety above courtesy to the party by not going to its headquarters. “In the end, a wise thing had been done because the President wants to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus disease.