Former Nigerian Minister of finance, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has reacted to Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) endorsement for her for the position of director-general of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). ECOWAS had in a statement by its president, Mahamadou Issoufou, on Monday endorsed Okonjo-Iweala for the position of director-general of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). The regional body called on other African countries as well as non-African countries to endorse her candidature, adding that since the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) on 1 January 1995 no African had assumed the position of Director-General of the Organisation. Reacting to her endorsement by ECOWAS via her official twitter account on Monday, Okonjo-Iweala, appreciated the commission for supporting her candidacy. She said, “A big thank you to the Economic Community of West African States @ecowas_cedeao for supporting my candidacy for DG @wto.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 675 new cases of COVID-19 with confirmed cases now rising to 20,919. The NCDC in its daily update on Monday reported seven more deaths from the coronavirus disease. The country’s death toll now stands at 525. While 7,109 patients have recovered from the disease, the new infections were reported in at least 21 states. This is just as the Director General of the NCDC, Chikwe Ihekweazu, has said that there is no single state in the country that is free of COVID-19. Two states, kogi and Cross River have been claiming to be COVID-19 free despite reports of infections and hospitalisations. Lagos State led the way with new infections reporting 288. The cases in Oyo State are also steadily growing and is on course to be the fourth state to record up to 1,000 cases. On Monday it reported 76 new cases and currently has 988 confirmed cases. Rivers State which reported 56 new cases, has a total of 930 confirmed cases. In Delta State, there 31 new cases, while Ebonyi State had 30. Gombe State reported 28 cases, Ondo, Kaduna and Kwara states recorded 20 cases each. Ogun had 17, FCT 16, Edo 13 and Abia 10. Nasarawa and Imo states had nine new cases each, Bayelsa, Borno and Katsina states had eight cases each, Sokoto and Bauchi states had three each while Plateau State had two.