The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dissolved the National Working Committee (NWC) headed by suspended chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, was appointed to head a national caretaker and convention committee in its place. Details of when the convention will hold are yet to emerge. Presidential aide, Bashir Ahmed in tweet said the decision was taken during the ongoing NEC meeting called by Victor Giadom at the State House on Thursday. Members of the NWC had previously vowed not to attend the ongoing NEC meeting of the party describing it as illegal because they didn’t recognise Giadom as acting chairman. READ ALSO: We Won’t Attend Giadom’s NEC Meeting – APC NWC, Says Buhari May Be Blackmailed. They were however forced to back down after Buhari said he would attend the meeting. Victor Giadom who declared himself acting chairman of the party after an Appeal Court ruling suspended Adams Oshiomhole as national chairman. He was rejected by members of the NWC who named Abiola Ajimobi a former governor of Oyo as acting chairman. President Muhammadu Buhari and his deputy, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo along with Senate President Ahmed Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila are all in attendance. Also in attendance are the governors of Ekiti, Kano, Kebbi, Nasarawa, Niger, Jigawa, Yobe, Plateau, Kogi, Imo, Gombe, Osun, Ogun, Lagos and Kwara. We Won’t Attend GiadomThe National Working Committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC), has threatened to boycott the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting convened by Victor Giadom, saying it’s “illegal and unconstitutional.’ President Buhari had earlier on Wednesday recognised Giadom as the party’s acting national chairman and declared he would attend the virtual National Executive Council meeting convened by Giadom on Thursday. READ ALSO: Buhari Says Giadom Is APC Acting National Chairman However, in a statement signed by Ntufam Hillard Etta and Waziri Bulama, Ag National Secretary of APC on Wednesday evening, the NWC said it would boycott the NEC meeting convened by Giadom because it was unconstitutional. The statement read, “The National Working Committee (NWC) regrets to turn down the Invitation to the illegal and unconstitutional National Executive Committee (NEC) convened by Chief Victor Giadom. “We believe that attending such a meeting will amount to embracing illegalities and turning a blind eye to the infractions on the Constitution of our great Party. The NWC urged President Muhammad Buhari not to attend the virtual NEC meeting, adding that his doing so will amount to backing illegality and criminality. “We wish to unequivocally state that members of the National Working Committee (NWC believe that the President was offered wrong advice or blackmailed into lending his weighty office to the illegality of the National Executive Committee meeting purportedly convened by one Victor Giadom on 25 June, 2020 “We hereby respectfully implore Mr. President to kindly avail himself with facts of the matter regarding the impasse presently experienced by the Party so to guide him in his assessment of the matter because we are sure that the President if properly advised, would come to the conclusion that the meeting convened by Chief Victor Giadom bothers on illegality and criminality”, the statement read. Since an Appeal Court upheld the suspension of APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, the party has been in crisis as members scramble to be in control of its leadership.