The presidency on Sunday described the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) as a mere irritant and featherweight group that has always been antagonistic to President Muhammadu Buhari. The group had on Sunday, in a statement signed by its Convener, Professor Ango Abdullahi, former vice chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), criticised President Buhari for failing the north and allowing insecurity fester under his watch However, reacting to the statement on Sunday, Femi Adesina, Senior Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, said the NEF was just a name and did not exist as a group. He said, “We are not surprised by this latest statement by Prof. Abdullahi, and our past position on what his group represents remains unchanged: a mere irritant and featherweight. “The former vice chancellor signed the statement under the banner of Northern Elders Forum (NEF). Hearing that title, you would think the body was a conglomeration of true elders. “But the truth is that NEF is just Ango Abdullahi, and Ango Abdullahi is NEF. It is a quasi-organisation that boasts of no credible membership, and its leader is akin to a General without troops. “Before the 2019 presidential election, the one-man army called NEF had shown its antipathy against President Buhari, and its preference for another candidate. They all got beaten together. “NEF is merely waving a flag that is at half-mast. President Buhari steadily and steadfastly focuses on the task of retooling Nigeria, and discerning Nigerians know the true state of the nation. They don’t need a paper tiger to tell them anything.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 403 new cases of COVID-19 with Gombe State accounting for 73 of the cases, the highest reported by any state. After several days of recording more than 100 new cases, Lagos State in the new NCDC update on Sunday had only 68 new cases. The total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria has risen to 16,085 with 5,220 discharged and 420 reported deaths. Kano State which has the third highest number of new infections recorded 46 new cases. Edo State had 36 new cases, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) recorded 35, Nasarawa State had 31, Kaduna State had 17, Oyo State had 16, while Abia State had 15. Delta and Borno states had 13 new cases each, Plateau State had eight, while Niger and Ruvers states had seven cases each. Enugu and Ogun states had six new cases each, Kebbi State had three, Ondo, Anambra and Imo states each had a single case.