The Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, has said that he is yet to join any political platform to seek reelection. There have been speculations that Obaseki who was disqualified from the party’s governorship primary election by the All Progressive Congress (APC) screening committee last week will be joining the PDP for his reelection. However, in a tweet on Wednesday, Obaseki, who announced his resignation from the APC yesterday, dismissed rumour that he had joined the PDP, when he disclosed that he had not joined any political platform for now. Obaseki said the safety of Edo State was his top priority and that he was focused on combating the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the state. “I have not moved to a new platform yet to seek re-election. My focus now is to control the spread of the coronavirus (#COVID19) pandemic, which is ravaging our country and threatening our healthcare system”, Obaseki said. Edo State has recorded 620 cases of COVID-19 and 27 deaths. Three days ago, Obaseki had in a statement announced that the partial lockdown in Edo State still remained effective. He said, “In view of the up-coming elections and to reduce infection transmission rates during political gatherings, I have issued a gazette that provides guidance on how political parties can conduct their activities. “There remains a restriction of gatherings for more than 20 persons. However, where higher numbers of persons are required to gather, permit with specified location, guidelines and supervision may be granted by the @EdoStateGovt. “Even though we had only implemented a partial lockdown in #EdoState, however, in line with the Presidential Task Force recommendations for states, the curfew starting from 10pm to 4am subsists.” President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday urged those protesting against increasing bandit activities in Katsina State to be patient as their protests could distract military operations aimed at clearing out bandits in the state. President Buhari spoke through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, after demonstrators took to the streets in Katsina State on Tuesday, calling on the government to secure the state. The president who has approved a joint military and police operation specifically targeted at combing Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and Sokoto states to rid the areas of bandits, said that security would be improved in the region, according to the statement. He said, “President Buhari appeals to the people of Katsina State to be patient and supportive of the ongoing military operations in the state, while sympathising with those who are bereaved, injured and lost properties. “President Buhari admonishes that taking to the streets for protest could distract the military operations, urging “Katsina indigenes not to give up on the military who over the years have a strong track record of quelling crises once given enough time. “The major forests in North Western Nigeria have been identified as home to the bandits in the region. The operation will clear all these forests,’’ he further said. Katsina State has recently been a hotbed of banditry in country. Last week over 50 persons were reportedly killed in different bandit attacks though the president had visited the state and warned the bandits to surrender their weapons. Nine days ago, President Buhari visited Katsina State to commiserate with Governor Aminu Masari over the loss of lives from attacks by bandits, which include District Head of Yantumaki, Alhaji Atiku Maidabino, and APC Chairman in Batsari Local Government Council, Alhaji Abdulhamid Sani Duburawa”, the statement added. The President said more decisive military operations against bandits in Zamfara, Sokoto, Niger, Katsina and Kaduna states would be executed.