Women’s rights activists in Nigeria have vowed to petition the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, over what they consider the misuse of police officers to intimidate and muzzle rape victims. The last couple of weeks in Nigeria have witnessed many incidents of sexual violence, with several women coming out on social media to call out men who had sexually abused them in the past. One of such women is Ms. Seyitan Babatayo who called out popular Nigerian singer, Dapo Oyebanjo aka D’banj, for raping her at Glee hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos, in 2018. However, things took an unexpected turn on Tuesday when the IGP’s Intelligence Response Team, headed by the ACP Abba Kyari, was said to have arrested Ms. Babatayo on the directives of the singer and his manager, one Damian Okorafor. It took combined efforts of several women rights activists to effect her bail on Thursday, after she had already spent one night in detention with criminals. However, speaking to The Interview on Thursday evening, the executive director of Project Alert on Violence Against Women, Mrs. Josephine Effah-Chukwuma, said the time had come to put an end to this sort of misuse of power by some officers of the Nigerian police. “Enough is enough. We are going to petition the IGP so that he knows what his people are doing. This is also what they did in Busola Dakolo’s case,” Effah-Chukwuma, who is one of the activists who facilitated Babatayo’s release from detention, told The Interview. She said it had become a dangerous trend of the IGP’s IRT team to go after women who call out their violators and seek justice for their victimisation, insisting that the practice must be stopped. Speaking on Babatayo’s whereabouts, she stated, “She has been under so much pressure, she’s so traumatised right now that we had send her to professionals so she could get psycho-social support. But she’s safe for now”. Following the order of Honourable Justice A.I. Chikere of the Federal High Court, Abuja division, the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has taken over assets owned Umaru Baba Abdullahi, the Chief Promoter of Doggi Group Limited over an indebtedness of more than  N440m. This followed an order by Justice A.I Chikere of the Federal High Court  Abuja on June 5, 2020. A statement by the Head of Corporate Communications at AMCON, Jude Nwauzor named Juliet Benson of Benson Reeds Legal Practitioners as its Receiver who moved in to enforce the order on Thursday June 18, 2020. AMCON took possession of the assets, which include properties situated at Plot 3810, Cadastral Zone A04, Asokoro District, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja and Plot 1274, Cadastral Zone B07, Katampe Hills, Katampe District, Abuja. The case of Doggi Group Limited and its promoter have been a protracted issue because the loan was purchased during the first phase of Eligible Bank Assets (EBA) purchase from Union Bank Plc way back in 2011. Since then, AMCON has offered the obligor a good measure of olive branches and explored all avenues to resolve the matter amicably, but the obligor, and his company, Doggi Group Limited have remained recalcitrant and unwilling to repay the huge debt to the Corporation. Nwauzor in the statement said, “Yes, we enforced on the properties today as ordered Justice Chikere’s court, and are grateful to the Federal High Court for working on behalf of Nigerians to recover some of the debts owed the country by a few individuals despite the challenges posed by the dreaded Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic to institutions including the judiciary. “Like we have always said in the past, our priority at AMCON has never been to take over anybody’s properties or assets. Our mandate is to recover Nigeria’s money in the hands of these obligors. Overtime however, we have observed that the obligors enjoy hiding under some legal technicalities to delay even the repayment arrangement they negotiated and signed. He added, “When you have held several meetings and arrived at an agreement but the obligor decided to make a U-turn by reneging, it leaves AMCON with no other option than to approach the court. In the case of Doggi Group Limited and its promoter, AMCON did everything any responsible and law abiding organistaion ought to do to help the promoter and his business continue to no avail.” According to AMCON officials, the enforcement on the properties of Doggi Group Limited and Alhaji Umaru Baba Abdullahi is one of the many others that would take place in the coming days, despite the interference in business activities by COVID-19.