The Edo State All Progress Congress governorship candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has said he needs no godfather to win the forthcoming general governorship election. Ize-Iyamu, who emerged as the party candidate in the primary election held on Monday, said though he respected Adams Oshiomhole, he did not need a godfather to win in the election scheduled for September 22. When asked who Adams Oshiomhole was to him on Channels TV’s Politics Today on Monday, Ize-Iyamu said Oshiomhole was the APC National Chairman whom he respects and will not join those insulting him. Ize-Iyamu said he won the party primary election without Oshiomhole being in Edo State and that he believed he would win the governorship election overwhelmingly. He said, “The only godfather I have is God. I am sure that is obvious to you. Adams Oshiomhole is the National Chairman of our part and I have immense respect for him and other leaders of the party. Oshiomhole was not in Edo today and I won in the 18 local governments. So we have mutual respect for each other. “I will not disrespect him (Oshiomhole) because everybody wants to insult him. “All I can tell you is I am well grounded in Edo. People know me. I have lived here all my life and they believe in me. They want somebody that understands their problems . I’m sincere. I’m focused. I have a clear cut agenda of what I want to do. On the basis I believe I will win the election overwhelmingly. I don’t need any godfather to win. ” Ize-Iyamu said though Oshiomhole was important and had a role to play towards his electoral victory in the general election as a former governor, he needed the support of all party leaders and individuals in the state to win. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has endorsed Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala for the position of director-general of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the nomination of Okonjo-Iweala, former coordinating minister for the economy, for the top WTO job on June 4. In an endorsement statement, Mahamadou Issoufou, ECOWAS president, said the commission was endorsing Okonjo-Iweala’s candidature after acknowledging her academic and managerial background. The statement reads, “HAVING ACKNOWLEDGED the strong academic and professional background of Dr. Okonjo Iweala and her very large experience in national affairs as Nigena’s Finance Minister 20032006 and 20112015 and Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister briefly in 2006; “HAVING FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGED her long years of managerial experience at the top echelons of multilateral institutions, her established reputation as a fearless reformer, her excellent negotiating and political skills, her experience of over 30 years as a Development Economist with a long standing interest in trade, her excellent academic qualifications, her positions as Managing Director World Bank, and currently as Board Chair Gavi and African Union Special Envoy to Mobilize Financial Resources for the fight against COVID-19; “ENDORSES the candidature of Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-iweala for the position of Director-General of the World Trade Organization for the period 2021-2025. ECOWAS called on other African countries as well as non-African countries to endorse her candidature, adding that since the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) on 1 January 1995 no African has assumed the position of Director-General of the Organisation.