The Adamawa police command has honored the National President of Professional Hunters Of Nigeria, Alhaji Muhammad  Abdullahi  Gombi  and other  local hunters in recognition of their contributions to the fight against crime in the state. Presenting the awards in Yola, on Tuesday, Olubenga Adeyanju, commissioner of police in the state said local hunters and vigilantes had sacrificed their lives to assist in the fight against crimes which led to much success. He added that with their supports the command had made tremendous achievements by dislodging kidnappers, Shila Boys, armed robbers and cattle rustlers from their hideouts and arrested many. “Only last four days, the command in collaboration with members of vigilantes and hunters stormed Yadim hills on the May 29, 2020 the hotbed of the kidnappers and apprehended seven suspects, recovered three AK 47 rifles, one Dane gun, one locally made pistol and two motor cycles. “Investigation further led to the arrest of another syndicate that kidnapped one Sule Haro, Solomi Ishaya and killed the husband pastor Ishaya sometimes in the month of April, 2020 at Marraba Bokki in Gombi LGA. “So, this presentation is in recognition of your contributions to the fight against crime in the state,’’ he stated. The state police boss assured that the command would continue to seek their support as he prevailed on the group to fish out bad eggs in their midst. Speaking during the ceremony, Abdullahi asked the government to use their knowledge of the terrain and hunting skills in the fight against other crimes as they have been doing in the fight against Boko Haram insurgents. “We, the hunters had so far played significant roles in the fight against Boko Haram and other crimes. “It is common knowledge that we (hunters) are familiar with the terrain in dreaded forests, like the Sambisa forest, Zuma rocks in Abuja, Falgore in Kano-Jos roads, Bagale and Yadim hills in Adamawa. “We are appealing to the Nigerian government to allow us join the fight against crime. We have thousands that were ever ready to join and assist,” he said.