Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state has resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Obaseki had met with President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday before announcing his decision. Speaking with journalists at the presidential villa, Obaseki said he would pursue his second-term bid on another platform. On June 14, the governor said he would disclose his next step after meeting with the president following his disqualification from the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election in Edo. Jonathan Ayuba, chairman of the APC screening committee for the Edo governorship poll, said the panel disqualified Obaseki over a “defective” certificate. Atiku Abubakar, former vice-president, had asked Obaseki to join the PDP, and making way for him to get the party’s ticket. The governor met with Nyesom Wike, Rivers state governor, and Emmanuel Udom, Akwa Ibom governor, (both members of the PDP) at the weekend. Obaseki had been at loggerheads with Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of the APC who supported him in 2016. Oshiomhole is believed to be backing Osagie Ize-Iyamu who was cleared to contest the APC primary election in Edo. Credit: TheCable Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State has admitted failing the people if the state in living up to his most basic responsibility, which is providing security for citizens of the state. Despite the admission, the governor said nothing about resigning or making way for more competent hands. Many parts of the state have been overrun by bandits. Assessing himself, Masari said the people of the state had never had peace since he became the governor of the state. The governor had signed a peace deal with the bandits in the past. It lasted only seven months. He said, “I don’t know what to tell them. I cannot look at them in the face because we have failed to protect them, contrary to our pledge to ensure the security of lives and property throughout the state.” He said, “I never expected the behaviour and the attitude of people living in the forests, the bandits, whose behaviour is worse than that of animals.” He added, “What we see here is that bandits come to town, spray bullets, kill indiscriminately for no purpose and no reason whatsoever, like the recent massacre of people at Faskari and parts of Dandume local government area. “They just killed the people. How can a human being behave the way an animal cannot behave?” “Our role is to complement efforts of the security agencies for which I believe we are doing nothing less than 90 per cent in terms of whatever is expected of us, based on resources available to us.”