Femi Falana, a principal partner at Falana & Falana’s Chambers has written a letter to the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami demanding the arrest and prosecution of 10 soldiers involved in the killing of three policemen and two civilians back in August 2019. The three policemen who were part of the Intelligence Response Team of the Inspector General of Police were killed in Taraba while they were transporting the kidnap Kingpin, Hamisu Bala ( alias Wadume), to the police headquarters in Jalingo on August 6, 2020. Falana in the letter dated June 15, 2020 said he represented the bereaved family of ASP Felix Adolije who was one of the policemen killed in order to free the suspected kidnapper by “a gang of soldiers led by one Captain Ahmed Tijjani Balarabe.” While Hamisu has been put on trial, Falana is asking both the Attorney General and the Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Tukur Burutai to produce the suspected soldiers in court as ordered by Justice Binat Nyako. Falana said to the AGF, “Instead of using position as Chief Law Officer of the Federation to ensure compliance with the court order in line with the provisions of section 287 of the Constitution of Nigeria, your office took over the case from the police prosecutor, amended the charge and withdrew the case against the suspects.” He said, “Stemming from the foregoing, we hereby request immediate compliance with the valid and subsisting order of the Federal High Court, Abuja Judicial Division by ensuring that the suspects who are at large are produced by the Chief of Army Staff or whoever has their custody so that they can be arraigned and tried in accordance with the law. “Take notice that if you fail to accede to our request within seven days of receipt of this letter, we shall not hesitate to take appropriate action under the law in order to ensure the slain police officers and civilians do not die in vain.’ Senior Special Assistant to the president on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu has accused some traditional rulers from President Muhammadu Buhari’s home state, Katsina, of collaborating and aiding banditry. Shehu, who made this statement while speaking on Channels TV’s Sunrise Daily on Monday, said some traditional rulers were complicit in collaboration with bandits. He said, “It is not that we are making direct accusations on anyone but it is also true that even in the president’s native state of Katsina, some traditional rulers have been found complicit in collaboration with the bandits to harm their own people.” Shehu added that efforts by the Nigerian Airforce to clear out bandits were at some point frustrated as informants were helping them to escape. “At some point, the Nigerian Air Force had to put a number of aircraft in Katsina, they are still there. In the early part of that operation attacking Zamfara which then was the epicentre. “They realised that once aircraft took off from Katsina airport, before it got to Zamfara for operation, telephone calls would have been made and targets would have disappeared. In the end we were forced to be flying from distant places like Kaduna and Kano in order to undertake operations in Zamfara.” “All of us as citizens have a duty to the nation to provide information to our armed forces,” he said. Recently, Katsina State has been the hotbed of banditry in country. Last week over 50 persons were reportedly killed in different bandit attacks, though president Buhari visited the state and warned bandits to surrender their weapons.