Chief Victor Giadom, one of the members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) laying claim to the chairmanship of the party, has convened a virtual meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC). Giadom, who declared himself acting national chairman of the party based on a court order following an Appeal Court ruling which upheld the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole as the party’s National Chairman, made this announcement in a statement on Tuesday. He said the virtual NEC meeting which would hold on June 25 at 12pm, is in strict compliance to COVID-19 guidelines. “I, Chief Hon. Victor Giadom, on behalf of the National Working Committee (NWC) and having been duly authorised by Court Order to Act as National Chairman of our great party and to preside over all meetings of the NWC and NEC hereby reconvene the NEC meeting that was earlier billed to hold on the 17th of March 2020 but was postponed. “In keeping strictly to the COVID-19 Guidelines, the reconvened National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting shall hold by virtual means. The codes would be communicated through text messages to members of the National Executive Committee”, he said. This development is coming after protesters stormed the National Secretariat on Monday, demanding that all members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) be sacked. Reports also said that Police officers had sealed the APC Secretariat on Tuesday. However, a statement by DCP Frank Mba, the Nigeria Police Public Relations Officer (PRO), on Tuesday said that the officers seen at the secretariat were ordered by to maintain law and order, within and around APC National Secretariat. The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) says it has uncovered the diversion of 250million at Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), Sokoto State. In a statement published on its website on Tuesday, the anti-graft agency said, its investigation revealed that the fraud was carried out when deductions meant for third parties such as the State Board of Internal Revenue and over-payment deductions were diverted on the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) and channeled into the private accounts of an individual and a company. The statement reads, “The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has uncovered the diversion of a huge sum of money belonging to the Federal Government into private pockets. “The money, in the sum of over Two Hundred and Fifty Million Naira (N250m) was diverted from the personnel cost account of the Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), Sokoto State.” The ICPC stated the account staff behind the fraudulent diversion of public fund had been arrested and is being questioned, adding that the commission was working to recover the stolen funds from the culprit. “The Commission has already taken into custody the kingpin in this criminal endeavour who is an Accounts staff of UDUTH.  He is being questioned  to unravel all those behind this fraudulent act. “ICPC has also commenced efforts to recover the proceeds of this fraud through the seizure of exotic cars and real estate properties from the main culprit. The commission said the account staff who masterminded the fraud took advantage of IPPIS platform that “allows Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs) to edit salaries that have been processed by the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) before they are finalised or paid. Thereafter, he substitute the genuine destination account numbers with those of his co-conspirators before payment. It added that investigation into the fraud was ongoing and that appropriate actions would be taken by the Commission upon conclusion.