Nigeria’s death toll from COVID-19 is now 506, with the new 19 deaths reported by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday. The country also recorded 661 new infections, taking the total number of confirmed cases of the disease to 19,808, just 192 cases shy of 20,000. However, the NCDC also reported that a total of 6,718 patients have now recovered fully and discharged from the treatment centres since the pandemic reached Nigeria on February 27. The latest update shows Lagos State leading with 230 new infections, and Rivers State following with 127. Delta State, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Oyo State came next with 83, 60 and 51 new infections respectively. Edo State had 31 new cases, Kaduna State reported 25, Plateau State had 13 while Ondo and Nasarawa states followed with six and three new cases respectively. Ekiti and Kano states had two new cases each and Borno State recorded only one new case. Former chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), John Oyegun, has said that the party is becoming a threat to the legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari and his government. Oyegun spoke on Saturday while reacting to the leadership crisis that has rocked the ruling party following a court of appeal order that upheld the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole as national chairman of the party. In a statement on Saturday, he said the recent development in the party was a brazen subversion of the party’s principles of internal democracy and flagrant violation of every rule of decent political engagement. “Our own political party, the APC, is fast becoming the single most dangerous threat to the legacy of our government and our president. “In the last few months we have watched how the party has brazenly subverted its own principles of internal democracy and flagrant violation of every rule of decent political engagement in a manner that makes everyone associated with its promise of change liable to be accused of either hypocrisy or apostasy,” Oyegun said. The former chairman who led the APC to its major victory in the 2015 general elections said it appeared that the country was regressing in its democratic journey under the APC-led government. He said, “We must therefore remember that our victory in the 2015 Presidential elections and the peaceful transfer of power that followed was a major testament of progress in our nation’s journey towards real democracy. “This unprecedented democratic achievement has since inspired progressive forces all over Africa and has become a standard by which democracy is measured in the rest of the continent. “Unfortunately, it appears that while other countries around us have marched ahead in the democratic journey, we have largely regressed.” Calling on the APC national executive committee (NEC) to meet and set up a caretaker panel, Oyegun said, “There is a most urgent need for the party NEC to meet and institute for the party a caretaker committee (even if we have to invoke the doctrine of necessity), whose main responsibility will be to arrange for a special national convention”.