Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has finally joined the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) with hopes of clinching the party’s governorship ticket for the upcoming election in the state. It’s coming few days after he quit the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor who made the move on Friday led a crowd of supporters to the PDP secretariat in Benin City where he was received by the state party chairman, Tony Aziegbemi. The PDP had in the last couple of days courted Obaseki with former Vice President Atiku Abubakar asking the party to make room for the state governor. The PDP even went as far as postponing its governorship party primaries in anticipation of Obaseki joining and contesting for the ticket. Obaseki who was disqualified from the primaries in the APC still has the advantage of incumbency at the governorship election. He was, for over a year at loggerheads with the APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who is believed to be behind the disqualified. The APC screening committee had ruled that there were discrepancies in the credentials submitted by Obaseki. Nigeria for the first time recorded up to 700 new cases of COVID-19 in a single day with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Thursday reporting 745 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the country. There are now a total of 18,480 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria, 475 deaths and 6,307 discharged from hospital. Cases in Lagos State has now reached 7,896 with the 280 new cases reported by the NCDC in the late Thursday night update. Oyo became the first state apart from Lagos to report ar least 100 new case of COVID-19 in 24 hours. It had 103 new cases. Cases in Ebonyi State also reached a new high with 72 new infections reported by NCDC. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 60 new cases while Imo State reported 46. Edo State had 34 new cases, Delta State had 33, Rivers State recorded 25, Kaduna State had 23, Ondo State reported 16, Katsina State had 12 and Kano State recorded 10 new cases. In Bauchi State, eight new cases were reported, seven were reported in Borno State, five in Kwara State, four in Gombe State, and two each in Sokoto and Enugu states. Yobe, Osun and Nasarawa states had one cases each.