The number of new cases of COVID-19 have continued to surge in Oyo State as it recorded 100 new cases on Wednesday according to the latest update from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The new figures show the state recording at least 100 cases for the second time in one week, and for three consecutive days, only Lagos State reported more new cases than Oyo. It has a total of 1,155 confirmed cases of the Coronavirus disease compared with Lagos, which now has 9,323 confirmed cases. On Wednesday, Lagos State recorded 250 new cases. Across the country, 649 new cases of the disease were reported by the NCDC, with the death toll standing at 542. A total 22,020 cases have been confirmed and 7,613 patients discharged. Plateau and Delta states, recording 40 new cases each also saw an increase in the number of new infections. Abia State reported 28 new cases, Kaduna State had 27  Ogun State recorded 22, Edo State had 20, while Akwa Ibom State saw 18 new cases. There were 17 new cases in Kwara State with the Federal Cappital territory (FCT) reporting the same number. Enugu State had 14, Niger and Adamawa states had 13 each, while Bayelsa State had seven. Osun and Bauchi states had six cases each, Anambra State had four, Gombe State had three, Sokoto State had two, while Imo and Kano had one each. The monthly National Economic Council meeting will no longer hold today (Thursday). Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo postponed the virtual meeting to give way to the National Executive Council meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC), scheduled for Thursday. The economic council meeting was also fixed for Thursday earlier and was meant to be attended by the governors of the 36 states and some ministers in charge of major government ministries. The NEC is chaired by the VP. But, it had to give way to the NEC of the ruling party amid the leadership crisis threatening to tear it apart. A memo by the Permanent Secretary, NEC, Olusola Idowu, and addressed to the state governors, announced  the postponement of the meeting. The memo, dated June 24, 2020, with the title, “Notice of postponement of the 105th (5th in 2020) Meeting of the National Economic Council”, reads, “The chairman of council, his Excellency, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, GCON, has directed that the NEC virtual meeting earlier scheduled for Thursday, June 25, 2020 has been postponed. “A new date for the meeting will be communicated to you. “Any inconvenience this postponement might have caused is highly regrettable. “Please accept, Your Excellency, the assurances of my best regards.” The majority of state governors are members of the APC and they were expected to attend Thursday’s NEC meeting, a reason that made it impossible for the economic council meeting to take place on the same date.