Chairman of Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Professor Itse Sagay has called on the federal government to release the detained Shiite leader, Ibrahim El-zakzaky. Sagay made this call in an exclusive interview with The Interview on Monday. READ ALSO: It’s A Pity Judiciary Hasn’t Been Fellow Fighter In Anti-Corruption War – Itse Sagay When asked if there were any legal justification for still detaining El-zakzaky, who has been in detention since 2015 after his sect had a face-off with Nigerian Army, Sagay said El-zakzaky had suffered enough and should be released. He said, “Frankly, I am very sad about his continuous detention. I think it gets to a stage where no matter what the person has done; giving what he has gone through, there should be some compassion in the mind of state authorities. “I think this man (El-zakzaky) has suffered enough. I am from the South. Those in the north are the ones who are very angry and know details of what he has done; how he used to intimidate everybody, zoning some part of the town to his organisation, and being intolerant.” Sagay said El-zakzaky had paid severely for whatever he might have done and that he should be released on compassionate grounds. “I think he has paid a very severe price for whatever wrong he might have done. He has lost children. “That is the worst thing that can happen to human being – to lose a child. But he has lost children. He himself has been injured. His wife has been injured. He has been incarcerated. He is very ill. I think the government, the state, should have compassion and let this man go and rest,” Sagay said. The Parakoyi of Ibadanland and one of Africa’s richest men, Prince Bode Akindele is dead. Sources who confirmed his death to The Interview could not state the cause of the industrialist. He was said to have had a business meeting on Sunday, where he sealed a major business deal but when his business associates called on Monday with update, they were told that he had died. He was 86 years old at the time of his death. Details later…