The Presidency has corrected misleading information about the current Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari on the State House Website after The Interview reported it. The Interview had reported On Friday, June 12, that “late Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, was still referred to as the current CoS on official website of the State House. However, check by The Interview on Saturday, June 13, revealed that the misleading information has been corrected. The State House Website now reads, “The Chief of Staff to the President is Professor Ibrahim A. Gambari. He was appointed on May 13, 2020, to succeed the late Mallam Abba Kyari, who held the office from August 27, 2015, until his death on April 17, 2020. Professor Ibrahim A. Gambari, CFR, OCORT, a scholar-diplomat, is the Founder/Chairman of the Board of Directors of Savannah Centre for Diplomacy, Democracy and Development, a non-governmental think-tank on research, policy studies, advocacy and training on the nexus between conflict prevention and resolution, democratisation and development in Africa.” Aisha Buhari has called on the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to release her aides from detention to avoid exposing them to COVID-19 while in custody. SaharaReporters had on Friday reported that one of Aisha’s aides who recently visited Lagos was ejected from the villa and arrested by the police for not self Isolating and complying with COVID-19 safety measures and endangering the lives of the president and others in the villa. Reacting to this development via her Twitter handle on Friday, the first lady, called on relevant government agencies to ensure no one violates the Quarantine Act prohibiting interstate movement, saying no one should be above the law. However, she called the IGP to releases her assigned staff who are still in custody to avoid putting their lives in danger or exposure to Covid-19. She said, I call on all relevant Government Agencies to enforce the Quarantine Act signed by Mr. President and ensure no one is found violating this law and the NCDC guidelines especially on interstate travel without the necessary exemptions for movement of essentials. “Anyone who does that should at the very least be made to under go a 14 days mandatory isolation no matter who the person is, no one should be above the law and the Police command will do well to remember that. “Finally, I call on the IGP to release my assigned Staff who are still in the custody of the Police in order to avoid putting their lives in danger or exposure to Covid-19 while in their custody.”