Aisha Buhari has called on the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to release her aides from detention to avoid exposing them to COVID-19 while in custody. SaharaReporters had on Friday reported that one of Aisha’s aides who recently visited Lagos was ejected from the villa and arrested by the police for not self Isolating and complying with COVID-19 safety measures and endangering the lives of the president and others in the villa. Reacting to this development via her Twitter handle on Friday, the first lady, called on relevant government agencies to ensure no one violates the Quarantine Act prohibiting interstate movement, saying no one should be above the law. However, she called the IGP to releases her assigned staff who are still in custody to avoid putting their lives in danger or exposure to Covid-19. She said, I call on all relevant Government Agencies to enforce the Quarantine Act signed by Mr. President and ensure no one is found violating this law and the NCDC guidelines especially on interstate travel without the necessary exemptions for movement of essentials. “Anyone who does that should at the very least be made to under go a 14 days mandatory isolation no matter who the person is, no one should be above the law and the Police command will do well to remember that. “Finally, I call on the IGP to release my assigned Staff who are still in the custody of the Police in order to avoid putting their lives in danger or exposure to Covid-19 while in their custody.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has for the second day running reported more than 600 new cases of COVID-19. On Friday, it reported 627 new cases and 12 more deaths from the coronavirus disease. The number of deaths now stands at 399. A total of 15,181 of COVID-19 cases have now been confirmed in the country while 4,891 patients have recovered and discharged from the different treatment centres. Lagos State once again led the way in new infections with 229, followed by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with 65. There 54 new cases in Abia, 42 in Borno, 35 in Oyo, 28 each in Rivers and Edo, 27 in Gombe and 21 in Ogun. In Plateau and Delta, there were 18 new cases for each of the states, while Bauchi and Kaduna had 10 cases each. In Benue, there were nine new cases, eight in Ondo, six in Kwara, four each in Nasarawa and Enugu, three each in Sokoto, Niger and Kebbi, while Yobe and Kano states had one case each.