The Adamawa State police command has arrested a 30-year-old woman, Zainab Jafaru, for alleged involvement in a nine-man rape gang in the state. Police spokesman in the state, DSP Suleiman Nguroje, in a statement on Thursday confirmed the incident in Yola. The statement reads, “on the 13/6/2020 following a report received from a 33 year old lady been raped by a syndicate of nine, at Gerio, a remote area of Jambutu, Yola North LGA, Police operatives attached to the command’s monitoring team, arrested Ahmadu Ismail (20years); Salu Buba (25year); Muhammed Ali (78yrs); Abubakar Ali (28years) and Zainab Jafaru (Female) 30 years. The incident happened on June 12, 2020 when the fifth Suspect Zainab Jafaru deceived the complainant, who is her friend, to accompany her to a certain place to meet her boyfriend. “Upon arrival, Zainab’s boyfriend (now on the run), invited his gang who forcefully had sexual intercourse with the complainant one after another”, he said. Nguroje disclosed that Jafaru would be charged to court for aiding and abating gang rape. There are serious concerns over the health status of former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, who had been reported to be in intensive care at First Cardiology Consultant Hospital in Lagos. The former governor has been hospitalised at the hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. However, the social media space on Thursday night was flooded with news of his  death from COVID-19 complications. The Interview had previously reported that Ajimobi was in intensive care at the same medical facility. No family or close associate has however officially confirmed the state of his health. Ajimobi reportedly has underlying medical conditions. He was only  recently named as acting chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) after an Appeal Court affirmed the suspension of national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole as a member of the party. The Interview however learnt that his wife, Florence Ajimobi may also still be receiving treatment at the same hospital. Ajimobi’s fate may have serious impact on the leadership crisis currently rocking the APC as several people are laying claim to office of the party chairman in acting capacity after Oshiomhole’s suspension. The National Working Committee of APC had thrown its weight behind Ajimobi who is the Deputy National Chairman,  Southwest. Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party spokesman, in a statement had said that, “The national working committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) rose from a meeting at the party’s national secretariat on Wednesday affirming senator Abiola Ajimobi as the Party’s Acting National Chairman following the Appeal Court’s ruling affirming the suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as National chairman and in line with Section 14.2 (iii) of the Party’s Constitution.” He added, “Due to senator Ajimobi’s unavoidable absence, NWC unanimously appointed the Party’s National Vice Chairman (South South), Prince Hilliard Etta to act on Sen. Ajimobi’s behalf, an action backed by the Party’s constitution which empowers the NWC to appoint one of its members in acting capacity and stipulates that the acting National chairman must be from the zone of the National Chairman.”