Former Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi, once said he prayed to God that he did not want to live beyond 70 years. Ajimobi who died from complications linked to COVID-19 would have been 70 years old in December. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Former Oyo Governor, Ajimobi Is Dead In the video, an Islamic cleric and another person were seen win Splash FM studio, discussing. Sitting in front of a banner with inscriptions: “4th Edition of Ramadan Lecture by Splash FM, 2020, titled, ‘The Position of Islam in dealing with global pandemic’, Ajimobi, said his father died two months to his 70th birthday. He said at the time he also thought he would be happy to live up to 70. The former governor, however, added that he later found that as he was approaching age 70 and life was becoming more comfortable. He said, “I used to tell God that once I clock 70, it is enough. My dad died two months to his 70th birthday. So I unusually say if I can clock 70 on earth like my dad it is enough. “But you see when I am now close to 70 and I am enjoying life, I am telling God that clocking 70 is small, it is not enough.” Ajimobi was rumoured dead last week but it later emerged that he was in intensive care at the First Cardiology Hospital, Lagos, where he reportedly died on Thursday afternoon. READ ALSO: Confusion, Anxiety Over Ajimobi’s Health While in hospital, he was named the acting national chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Born on December 16 1949, Ajimobi was formerly the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the National Oil and Chemical Marketing Company, a subsidiary of Shell Petroleum, Nigeria. Upon leaving the oil sector in 2002 after 26 years, he was elected in 2003 as a Senator representing Oyo South Senatorial District on the platform of the Alliance for Democracy (AD). He contested in 2007 for the governorship of Oyo State under the banner of the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP), but failed to win. In 2011, he recontested under the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and was elected Governor of Oyo State. He was the first Oyo State governor to win reelection. The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta has reassigned a number top management staff at the Commission as he sets to strengthen its regulatory activities. Danbatta, who only recently was reappointed for a new five-year term by President Muhammadu Buhari, seems determined to position the country’s telecoms regulatory agency for even greater accomplishments. READ ALSO: President Buhari Reappoints Danbatta As NCC Boss Those affected by the redeployment  include the Director, Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Department, Mr. Efosa Idehenwho who is now Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau; and the Director, Public Affairs Department, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, who is to now serve as Director, Research and Development department. Others are the Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, who is now the new Director, Public Affairs Department and the Director of Research and Development (R and D) Department, Ephraim Nwokonneya, who is now the new Director, Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Department.