The Hausa/Fulani Community of Tigno in Lamurde Government Area of Adamawa State has demanded for Justice and fairness over the recent communal conflict in the area. Mr. Aliyu Tigno, a leader of the community, in a news conference in Yola, the state capital on Friday said that the demand was necessary to prevent future occurrence of the conflict and restore permanent peace in the area. He alleged that the Hausa/Fulani community were the victims of the crisis with high number of deaths and casualties and at the same time were the only people arrested as suspects. The community accused the Police of bias during arrest of suspects in connection with the recent communal conflict in Tigno. “We demand the unconditional and immediate release of all those currently under police detention. “We call on the Judicial Commission of Enquiry constituted by the state government to investigate the remote and immediate causes of the crisis and make just and fair recommendations for implementation. “We call on the security agencies in the state to live up to their responsibilities and devoid of bias, discrimination and injustice, particularly, on the Tigno crisis,” Aliyu urged. On the displaced persons, the spokesman of the community further demanded for the urgent resettlement of the affected communities and compensate all their losses by the state government and Lamurde local council. Reacting to the alleged bias in arrest of the suspects in connection with Tigno communal conflict, police spokesman in the state, DSP Sulaiman Nguroje, said that the command would look into the accusation. “It is normal for anybody or group who think that he was not given equal treatment to demand for justice and fair play. “Now with this allegation from the community, we would embark on fresh investigation on the matter. “The Commissioner of Police has vowed that any officer found to be biased in the cause of Tigno crisis would definitely face the wrath of the authority accordingly,” Nguroje said. It could be recalled that the Tigno communal conflict occurred on May 14 and 15, during which about 60 people were confirmed killed and many injured, while over one thousand people, majority of whom were women and children were displaced. The Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, the godfather syndrome and imposition of candidates must be eradicated in Edo State politics. According to a statement signed by Frank Irabor, Secretary to the Benin Traditional Council, on Thursday, the monarch said that the godfather syndrome and imposition of candidates in the name of “consensus candidate” were anti-democratic. The monarch who expressed concern over imposition of candidates and forcing some candidates to step down for another said all qualified aspirants should be given a level playing ground to strengthen democracy. “His Royal Majesty, Omo N‘Oba N’Edo, Uku Akpoiokpolo, the Oba of Benin has said times without number that the Palace of the Oba of Benin does not get involved in partisan politics. “The Omo N’Oba strongly advises that in order to eschew recurrent socio political conflict that seems to constantly ravish the state, making Edo people a laughing stock to the rest of the country in how politicians manage the affairs of Edo people, our Edo political actors must eradicate the twin evil political vices of Godfatherism and CONSENSUS CANDIDATE. “These two practices seem antithetical to the very fundamental basis of democracy. In other words this business of coercing aspirants to step down for another candidate for whatsoever reason is undemocratic.  It will not augur well for the development of democratic process in Nigeria.” “We believe all qualified aspirants in any elective office should be given a level-playing field, for democracy to develop to the next level in Nigeria. Political actors should mature up and learn not to wash their dirty linen in public.” The Oba urged politicians to be civil and show sportsmanship as political parties prepare for governorship primaries in the state, warning that there is an ancestral curse on anyone who attempts to tarnish the image of the Oba of Benin and the ancient throne of Benin Kingdom to further their selfish political agenda. “Ghana Must Go politics should end in the State. Politicians should stop cashing in on the poor masses and exploiting them for their votes. “As the various political parties go about the process of selecting their candidates through their respective party primaries, we urge all to exercise the highest standards of maturity and sportsmanship, as the desire to bring about the best for the people of Edo State cannot be compromised nor sacrificed on the altar of intolerance, rumour mongering and fake news”, he said.