The Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has said that passengers must arrive airport three hours before flight once resumption of flight commence on June 21. Both local and international flights have been shut down since March as one of the measures to curtail the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. In preparation for flight resumption, however, FAAN has announced via its official twitter handle on Monday that one of the modalities for flight resumption was that passengers must be in the airport three hours before any flight. According to FAAN, the three hours arrival of passengers to airport before flight is for proper safety check to prevent spread of coronavirus pandemic. “#COVID-19 Flight Resumption Protocol for Passengers: You are advised to arrive at the Airport 3 hours before your flight due to the new COVID-19 safety checks”, FAAN said. The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 had announced that the second phase of easing of COVID-19 lockdown would allow domestic flights to resume from June 21. The airports to commence domestic operations on the said date include, Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja, Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano, Omagwa International Airport, Port Harcourt and Sam Mbakwe Airport, Owerri. Femi Falana, a principal partner at Falana & Falana’s Chambers has written a letter to the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami demanding the arrest and prosecution of 10 soldiers involved in the killing of three policemen and two civilians back in August 2019. The three policemen who were part of the Intelligence Response Team of the Inspector General of Police were killed in Taraba while they were transporting the kidnap Kingpin, Hamisu Bala ( alias Wadume), to the police headquarters in Jalingo on August 6, 2020. Falana in the letter dated June 15, 2020 said he represented the bereaved family of ASP Felix Adolije who was one of the policemen killed in order to free the suspected kidnapper by “a gang of soldiers led by one Captain Ahmed Tijjani Balarabe.” While Hamisu has been put on trial, Falana is asking both the Attorney General and the Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Tukur Burutai to produce the suspected soldiers in court as ordered by Justice Binat Nyako. Falana said to the AGF, “Instead of using position as Chief Law Officer of the Federation to ensure compliance with the court order in line with the provisions of section 287 of the Constitution of Nigeria, your office took over the case from the police prosecutor, amended the charge and withdrew the case against the suspects.” He said, “Stemming from the foregoing, we hereby request immediate compliance with the valid and subsisting order of the Federal High Court, Abuja Judicial Division by ensuring that the suspects who are at large are produced by the Chief of Army Staff or whoever has their custody so that they can be arraigned and tried in accordance with the law. “Take notice that if you fail to accede to our request within seven days of receipt of this letter, we shall not hesitate to take appropriate action under the law in order to ensure the slain police officers and civilians do not die in vain.’