The Nigerian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, says the issues surrounding the demolition of building on the premises of Nigerian High commission in Accra-Ghana have been resolved. Briefing Nigerians on the matter, Onyeama, in a statement via his twitter handle on Friday, said those behind the demolition had been arraigned and charged to court, and that the Ghanaian government would make restitution for the damage done. He said, “Briefed Members of the Press on the illegal invasion and demolition of a residential building in our diplomatic premises in Accra, #Ghana. The President of Ghana, H.E. @NakufoAddo has apologised, the perpetrators have been arrested and arraigned in court and the Ghanaian government has agreed to be responsible for restitution. “So, this is to say that the matter has been satisfactorily resolved and at very highest level. H.E President @MBuhari personally engaged in this process.” Onyeama said Nigeria/Ghana relationship would be further strengthened by the lesson learnt from what has happened. “So, we would like to put the matter to rest and to acknowledge the very speedy reaction of the Ghanaian Government. “We will continue to further strengthen bilateral relations between our two countries, take lessons learnt from what has happened and move forward without recrimination”, he said. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Thursday reported 594 new cases of COVID-19 infections in the country bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 22,614. In the last one week, 4,134 cases have been recorded across the country. The NCDC put the number of deaths from the Coronavirus Disease at 549 while it says that 7,822 patients have recovered and also discharged. Lagos State recorded the highest number of new cases with 159. Delta State was the only other state to report more than 100 new cases as it recorded 106. Ondo State had 44 new cases, the Federal Capital territory (FCT) and Edo State reported 34 cases each, while Oyo saw a decrease in the number of new  cases reporting 33, the same number as Kaduna State. Enugu State had 28 new cases, Katsina State had 25, Imo State had 22, Adamawa State had 15, Ogun State had 12, while Osun State reported 11 new cases. Eight new cases were recorded in Abia State, six in Rivers State, five each in Nasarawa, Bauchi and Niger states, four in Kebbi State, three in Ekiti State and one each in Plateau and Taraba states.