The suspended National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, says that he has accepted the verdict of the Appeal Court that upheld his suspension. A Court of Appeal on Tuesday upheld the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole, who was earlier ordered to stop parading himself as the National Chairman of the APC by an Abuja Federal High Court in March. Speaking on Channels TV’s Politics Today on Wednesday, Oshiomhole said though he was waiting for his lawyers to advise him on the next decision to take accept had accepted the verdict. He said, “We thank their lordship. They have given their judgement. In our democracy the judiciary is an independent arm of government. It is not for you to pick which judgement to obey. So I accept their judgement on good fate. I am a product of the judiciary. “I always tell people that if I am not a convict today, it is courtesy of a courageous BENCH and a very resourceful BAR. All my life has been a life of struggle. “People have always oppressed and harassed me but the judiciary always came to my aid. Even my being a governor was courtesy of court. So I accept it in good fate. My lawyers will advise me on next line of action.” Speaking on the Deputy National Secretary of the All Progressive Congress, Victor Giadom, who declared himself as the acting National Chairman of the party and cancelled the Edo governorship primary election screening exercise, Oshiomhole said some persons were taking advantage of the crisis in the party to cause problems in the party. Popular Nigerian American broadcaster and radio shows host, Dan Foster is dead. Reports say the popular On-Air-Personality passed on Wednesday afternoon, in a Lagos hospital and that his wife is still in a COVID-19 isolation centre receiving treatment. While there are speculations that he died from COVID-19 complications there have not been official statement on the cause of his death. He was a favourite in several radio stations in Nigeria including Inspiration FM, Cool FM, City FM and Classic FM. Detail later…