The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 566 new cases of COVID-19 infections in Nigeria taking the country’s confirmed cases to 25,133. The NCDC on Monday also reported the death toll from the coronavirus disease as 573 and put the number of recoveries as 9,493. Lagos State recorded the highest number of new cases with 166. It was followed by Oyo State which had 66 cases. Delta State recorded 53 new cases while Ebonyi State had 43. In Plateau State, there were 34 news cases, 32 in Ondo State, 26 in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and 25 in Ogun State. Edo State had 24 new cases, 15 in Imo State , 13 in Bayelsa State, 12 in Benue State, 11 each in Gombe, Kano and Kaduna states, eight on Osun State, seven in Nasarawa State, five in Borno and two each in Katsina and Anambra states. The Federal Government has approved the next phase of reopening the economy with the lifting of interstate travel and allowing schools to resume. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha speaking on Monday howver said a lockdown could be imposed on 18 Local Governments in the country. These LGs, he said account for 60 percent of the coronavirus cases . There also still a curfew in place 10pm to 4am during which time interstate travel was not allowed. The SGF said, “Permission of movement across State borders only outside curfew hours with effect from 1st July, 2020.” The government also set limits to the category of students who could go to school limiting it to that are in their final year of primary school, junior secondary school or senior secondary school. That is students in primary six, Junior Secondary School 3 and Senior Secondary School 3 will be allowed to return to school. Mustapha said President Muhammadu Buhari gave the approval for the next phase of reopening the country after he was briefed by the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19. Mustapha who is chairman of the task force said, “​I am pleased to inform you that Mr. President has carefully considered the 5th Interim Report of the PTF and has accordingly approved that, with the exception of some modifications to be expatiated upon later, the Phase Two of the eased lockdown be extended by another four weeks with effect from Tuesday, June 30, 2020 through Midnight of Monday, 27 July, 2020.” He added, ​”Specifically, however, the following measures shall either remain in place or come into effect: Maintaining the current phase of the national response, for another four weeks in line with modifications to be expatiated by the National Coordinator.”