President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday urged those protesting against increasing bandit activities in Katsina State to be patient as their protests could distract military operations aimed at clearing out bandits in the state. President Buhari spoke through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, after demonstrators took to the streets in Katsina State on Tuesday, calling on the government to secure the state. The president who has approved a joint military and police operation specifically targeted at combing Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and Sokoto states to rid the areas of bandits, said that security would be improved in the region, according to the statement. He said, “President Buhari appeals to the people of Katsina State to be patient and supportive of the ongoing military operations in the state, while sympathising with those who are bereaved, injured and lost properties. “President Buhari admonishes that taking to the streets for protest could distract the military operations, urging “Katsina indigenes not to give up on the military who over the years have a strong track record of quelling crises once given enough time. “The major forests in North Western Nigeria have been identified as home to the bandits in the region. The operation will clear all these forests,’’ he further said. Katsina State has recently been a hotbed of banditry in country. Last week over 50 persons were reportedly killed in different bandit attacks though the president had visited the state and warned the bandits to surrender their weapons. Nine days ago, President Buhari visited Katsina State to commiserate with Governor Aminu Masari over the loss of lives from attacks by bandits, which include District Head of Yantumaki, Alhaji Atiku Maidabino, and APC Chairman in Batsari Local Government Council, Alhaji Abdulhamid Sani Duburawa”, the statement added. The President said more decisive military operations against bandits in Zamfara, Sokoto, Niger, Katsina and Kaduna states would be executed. The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has seized a multi-million naira property belonging to the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed. The ICPC announced the seizure of Mohammed’s property  in a statement published on its official website on Tuesday. The ICPC said that Mohammed, who formerly served as a Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) before he became governor, allocated the said property to a school that had himself and family members as directors and shareholders. The statement reads: “Pursuant to its powers contained in Section 45 (4) (a-c) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has seized a multi-million naira property belonging to the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, formerly Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “The property which houses Zinaria International School is located at Plot 298 Wuye District, Cadastral Zone B3, FCT, Abuja. “ICPC’s intelligence-led investigation revealed that  Senator Mohammed in his official capacity as the FCT Minister, had allocated the said property to a school that had himself and family members as directors and shareholders, despite an existing right of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture over the land.” The commission said it would apply to the court for an order of forfeiture in line with the Federal Government Policy focusing on recovery of proceeds of crime, pending when the tenure of the Mohammeda expires. “Senator Mohammed had earlier been charged for using his office to confer corrupt advantage upon himself and relations under Section 19 of ICPC law but could not be arraigned before he was sworn in as Governor of Bauchi State. “In view of the provisions of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, the charge which was pending before Hon. Justice Senchi of FCT High Court 13, Jabi, was withdrawn by the Commission to forestall its being struck out by the court suo moto. “Following the notice of seizure, the Commission will apply to the court for an order of forfeiture under Section 48 of the ICPC Act in line with the Federal Government Policy focusing on recovery of proceeds of crime, pending when the tenure of the governor expires,” the statement added.