Former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, has expressed disbelief that Abiola Ajimobi, a former governor of Oyo State is dead. In a statement on Friday, Oshiomhole condoled with Florence Ajimobi, widow of the former governor who reportedly died from COVID-19 complications. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Former Oyo Governor, Ajimobi Is Dead He said, “On behalf of Lara and my entire family, I offer my deep condolences to his wife, Mrs. Florence Ajimobi, their children and the entire Ajimobi family. May the Almighty God console them and grant them the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” Oshiomhole, himself a former governor said, “It is with great shock I received the news of the passing of my dear friend and brother, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. It is very hard for me to accept that a true friend and a loyal brother is gone. “I recall that our last moments together was at the National Working Committee (NWC) of our great party, All Progressives Congress (APC), just few weeks ago. He flew into Abuja that day for the meeting.” As usual, Oshiomhoke said, “he brought his deep insights, candor and infectious humour to bear in his contributions as the National Vice Chairman to our discussion that day. You couldn’t fault his forensic logic, nor resist his disarming jokes.” Ajimobi he said appeared robust and healthy. READ ALSO: I Didn’t Want To Live Beyond 70 – Ajimobi “Against this backdrop, nothing could therefore have prepared me to entertain the suspicion – much less, the thoughts – that that would be our last interaction,” the former Edo governor added. He said, “A family man who treasured the company of his wife and children more than anything, he was in a hurry to return to his Ibadan home as soon as the meeting ended. “Alas, the news came few days later that he had taken ill. It will therefore not be incorrect to say that Senator Ajimobi met his death serving our great party, APC.” Oshiomhole said his relationship with Senator Ajimobi, transcended partisan politics. “As fellow governors, we struck an uncommon rapport. We spoke often on anything – personal, politics and public interest. We drew even closer after we both served out our terms as governors of Oyo and Edo States. “With Ajimobi, you could not ask for a more trustworthy ally in politics. His word was his bond. What a colossal loss!” The Nigerian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, says the issues surrounding the demolition of building on the premises of Nigerian High commission in Accra-Ghana have been resolved. Briefing Nigerians on the matter, Onyeama, in a statement via his twitter handle on Friday, said those behind the demolition had been arraigned and charged to court, and that the Ghanaian government would make restitution for the damage done. He said, “Briefed Members of the Press on the illegal invasion and demolition of a residential building in our diplomatic premises in Accra, #Ghana. The President of Ghana, H.E. @NakufoAddo has apologised, the perpetrators have been arrested and arraigned in court and the Ghanaian government has agreed to be responsible for restitution. “So, this is to say that the matter has been satisfactorily resolved and at very highest level. H.E President @MBuhari personally engaged in this process.” Onyeama said Nigeria/Ghana relationship would be further strengthened by the lesson learnt from what has happened. “So, we would like to put the matter to rest and to acknowledge the very speedy reaction of the Ghanaian Government. “We will continue to further strengthen bilateral relations between our two countries, take lessons learnt from what has happened and move forward without recrimination”, he said.