The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 684 new cases of COVID-19 taking the number of confirmed cases in the country to 23,298. The NCDC on Friday also reported five more deaths from the coronavirus disease. The country’s death toll now stands at 554. The number of patients who have recovered and discharged from treatment centres is 8,253. The 684 new cases were reported in 19 states of the federation with Lagos State accounting for 259 of those cases. At this rate of infection and with 9,741 confirmed cases of COVID-19, Lagos is now only a day or two away from reaching the 10,000 cases mark. Oyo State which for four of the last five days has recorded the second highest number of new cases had 76 new infections. Katsina State with the third highest number of new cases had 69 while Delta State reported 66. In Rivers State there were 46 new cases and 23 in Ogun State. Edo and Osun states 22 new cases each, Ebonyi State had 21, the Federal Capital territory (FCT) had 20 new cases, Kaduna State had 16, Ondo State recorded 10, while Imo and Abia states had nine cases each. Gombe State had five new cases, Plateau and Bauchi states had four each, Ekiti State had two while Anambra State had one case. Former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, has expressed disbelief that Abiola Ajimobi, a former governor of Oyo State is dead. In a statement on Friday, Oshiomhole condoled with Florence Ajimobi, widow of the former governor who reportedly died from COVID-19 complications. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Former Oyo Governor, Ajimobi Is Dead He said, “On behalf of Lara and my entire family, I offer my deep condolences to his wife, Mrs. Florence Ajimobi, their children and the entire Ajimobi family. May the Almighty God console them and grant them the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” Oshiomhole, himself a former governor said, “It is with great shock I received the news of the passing of my dear friend and brother, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. It is very hard for me to accept that a true friend and a loyal brother is gone. “I recall that our last moments together was at the National Working Committee (NWC) of our great party, All Progressives Congress (APC), just few weeks ago. He flew into Abuja that day for the meeting.” As usual, Oshiomhoke said, “he brought his deep insights, candor and infectious humour to bear in his contributions as the National Vice Chairman to our discussion that day. You couldn’t fault his forensic logic, nor resist his disarming jokes.” Ajimobi he said appeared robust and healthy. READ ALSO: I Didn’t Want To Live Beyond 70 – Ajimobi “Against this backdrop, nothing could therefore have prepared me to entertain the suspicion – much less, the thoughts – that that would be our last interaction,” the former Edo governor added. He said, “A family man who treasured the company of his wife and children more than anything, he was in a hurry to return to his Ibadan home as soon as the meeting ended. “Alas, the news came few days later that he had taken ill. It will therefore not be incorrect to say that Senator Ajimobi met his death serving our great party, APC.” Oshiomhole said his relationship with Senator Ajimobi, transcended partisan politics. “As fellow governors, we struck an uncommon rapport. We spoke often on anything – personal, politics and public interest. We drew even closer after we both served out our terms as governors of Oyo and Edo States. “With Ajimobi, you could not ask for a more trustworthy ally in politics. His word was his bond. What a colossal loss!”