The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has seized a multi-million naira property belonging to the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed. The ICPC announced the seizure of Mohammed’s property  in a statement published on its official website on Tuesday. The ICPC said that Mohammed, who formerly served as a Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) before he became governor, allocated the said property to a school that had himself and family members as directors and shareholders. The statement reads: “Pursuant to its powers contained in Section 45 (4) (a-c) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has seized a multi-million naira property belonging to the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, formerly Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “The property which houses Zinaria International School is located at Plot 298 Wuye District, Cadastral Zone B3, FCT, Abuja. “ICPC’s intelligence-led investigation revealed that  Senator Mohammed in his official capacity as the FCT Minister, had allocated the said property to a school that had himself and family members as directors and shareholders, despite an existing right of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture over the land.” The commission said it would apply to the court for an order of forfeiture in line with the Federal Government Policy focusing on recovery of proceeds of crime, pending when the tenure of the Mohammeda expires. “Senator Mohammed had earlier been charged for using his office to confer corrupt advantage upon himself and relations under Section 19 of ICPC law but could not be arraigned before he was sworn in as Governor of Bauchi State. “In view of the provisions of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, the charge which was pending before Hon. Justice Senchi of FCT High Court 13, Jabi, was withdrawn by the Commission to forestall its being struck out by the court suo moto. “Following the notice of seizure, the Commission will apply to the court for an order of forfeiture under Section 48 of the ICPC Act in line with the Federal Government Policy focusing on recovery of proceeds of crime, pending when the tenure of the governor expires,” the statement added. Nigerian controversial musician, Afeez Fashola, popularly known as Naira Marley has vowed that he and his followers will henceforth boycott Executive Jets. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Executive Jet Services, Sam Iwuajoku, had called Naira Marley and his crew members “a bunch of useless people” in a letter of apology to the Federal Government, shortly after the airline was suspended for flying the musician to Abuja for a concert in spite of the COVID-19 lockdown. In a tweet on Tuesday, Naira Marley, who claimed he had more than 20,000 followers who patronise Executive Jets every month said he and his followers would not patronise the flight company anymore since the CEO called them useless. He said, “Do you know that over 20,000 Marlians travel with executive jet a month. We won’t be using your useless airline again for calling us useless. Thank God we didn’t crash on that flight sha because we nearly did.” He also noted that the name of his younger brother, who was a member of his entourage during the trip was Babatunde Fashola, the name that seemed to have led the CEO of the airline to believe that the said flight was to fly the Nigerian Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, to Abuja on the said day. The Federal government had announced the suspension of Executive Jets Services on Monday during the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja. The minister of Aviation Hadi Sirika, who announced the suspension, said for giving false information to obtain approval to fly, the airline, ExecuJet Services, jad been suspended, adding that the pilots would be sanctioned and that the operators would be heavily fined.