President Muhammadu Buhari has recognised the leadership of Victor Giadom as the acting nation chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) according to a tweet by presidential media aide, Garba Shehu. Buhari, Shehu said would also be attending a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting called by Giadom to hold at the presidential villa on Thursday. The APC has been in crisis since the Court of Appeal affirmed the suspension of Adam’s Oshiomhole as a member and chairman of the party. While Giadom claimed the chairmanship of the party in Oshiomhole’s absence, the National Working Committee of the party named former Oyo governor, Abiola Ajimobi as acting chairman.  Ajimobi is however hospitalised with COVID-19. Shehu said on Wednesday that, “The President has received very convincing advice on the position of the law as far as the situation in the party is concerned and has determined that the law is on the side of Victor Giadom as Acting National Chairman.” He said, “Because he will always act in accordance with the law, the President will be attending the virtual meeting Giadom called for tomorrow afternoon.” READ ALSO: Giadom Convenes Virtual APC NEC Meeting President Buhari also urged the media to stop promoting manufactured controversies and to not give any further room for mischievous interpretations of the law on this matter. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has explained that the new Strategic Management Plan (SMP) 2020-2024 by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is evidence of the performance and innovative ideas from the regulatory body. The Strategic Management Plan, he said, will be a pedestal to drive the implementation of the Federal Government’s digital economy vision. Pantami was speaking during the virtual launch of the five-year strategy plan in Abuja  which was attended by few invited officials from the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, the NCC, and critical stakeholders in the telecoms sector. According to a statement by the director if public affairs at NCC, Dr. Henry Nkemadu,  Pantami said during the occasioned that the launch of the SMP demonstrated the Commission’s serious improvement in performance matrix and its efforts in accelerating the implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) and the National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020 – 2025 of the Federal Government. He said, “I feel very excited for the fact that there is a serious improvement in the performance of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). “The launch of this SMP 2020 – 2024 is a clear indication of that. When a parastatal is performing, it will create an innovative idea on how to be more successful. When a parastatal is not performing, you will not hear anything on how to implement policies and come up with different strategies and plans.” He said, “We need to challenge and ridicule our previous successes by setting new records through the implementation of this SMP 2020 – 2024. The NCC Management must ensure effective implementation of this SMP.” The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, on his part said the SMP is the fulcrum that will aid the NCC in driving its telecom regulatory mandate in the fast evolving telecoms industry, in the next five years. He said it would serve as a roadmap for the future of the Nigerian telecoms sector, taking into consideration the current and emerging trends in the industry and the numerous expectations of the diverse Stakeholders. Danbatta said, “The Federal Government’s economic diversification plans are focused on a robust digital economy, which will improve employment generation, as well as encourage innovation. This was prime in our minds during the formulation of the SMP. “We have invested great time and effort in ensuring that this document is pragmatic, and I am very confident and excited in its completeness to successfully guide the Commission in achieving the set objectives. We are committed to the implementation of this SMP.” The Chairman Senate Committee on Communications, Distinguished Senator Oluremi Tinubu who was represented by Distinguished Senator Obinna Agbo, praised the Commission for its exemplary performance and averred that the new SMP 2020 – 2024 would ensure the Commission is on course to deliver on the mandate of the Federal Government for a digital economy. READ ALSO: NCC To Launch 5-Year Strategic Management Plan