The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 675 new cases of COVID-19 with confirmed cases now rising to 20,919. The NCDC in its daily update on Monday reported seven more deaths from the coronavirus disease. The country’s death toll now stands at 525. While 7,109 patients have recovered from the disease, the new infections were reported in at least 21 states. This is just as the Director General of the NCDC, Chikwe Ihekweazu, has said that there is no single state in the country that is free of COVID-19. Two states, kogi and Cross River have been claiming to be COVID-19 free despite reports of infections and hospitalisations. Lagos State led the way with new infections reporting 288. The cases in Oyo State are also steadily growing and is on course to be the fourth state to record up to 1,000 cases. On Monday it reported 76 new cases and currently has 988 confirmed cases. Rivers State which reported 56 new cases, has a total of 930 confirmed cases. In Delta State, there 31 new cases, while Ebonyi State had 30. Gombe State reported 28 cases, Ondo, Kaduna and Kwara states recorded 20 cases each. Ogun had 17, FCT 16, Edo 13 and Abia 10. Nasarawa and Imo states had nine new cases each, Bayelsa, Borno and Katsina states had eight cases each, Sokoto and Bauchi states had three each while Plateau State had two. The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has denied news reports that it ordered the demolition of a property in Ikoyi whose owner, Joseph Arumemi-Ikhedi is indebted to the corporation to the tune of N397bn, describing the report as malicious and intended to mislead the judge hearing the case. In a statement on Monday, AMCON said the report concerning the demolition of the said property situated at No. 27, Femi Okunnu Street, Ikoyi, Lagos, was a malicious misrepresentation of not just facts, but one fed the media by Mr. Babajide Koku, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) to mislead the Federal High Court hearing the case. AMCON said Koku did not disclose to Justice Faji that the” property now belongs to Ehimome Properties Limited, a company a Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) search revealed belongs to Mrs. Mary Ehimome Arumemi-Ikhide, Mr. Martin Arumemi-Ikhide and Dr. Margaret Omoemin Okonkwo (wife, son and daughter of the main promoter of Rockson Engineering Company Limited) as shareholders and directors of Ehimome Properties Limited. “For the records, Sir Joseph I. Akinola Arumemi-Johnson and members of his immediate family own four companies that are indebted to AMCON over N397bn, which AMCON bought over from various Nigerian banks.” The companies, it said include Arik Air Limited with debt of over N248billion; Rockson Engineering Company Limited over N136bn; Ojemai Farms Limited with over N11bn as well as Ojemai Investments Limited indebted with over N2billion. AMCON said the negative impact of this humongous debt to the Nigerian economy, which these companies and their promoters have refused to pay back are better imagined if the federal government did not set up AMCON to go after people like this who are bent on destroying the economy of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The referenced property on No. 27, Femi Okunnu Street, Ikoyi, Lagos State is one of the many assets hidden from AMCON by the obligor but, which was eventually traced and sold as mandated by the AMCON Act as amended to recover for the country,” the corporation said. It said, “Once a property is sold by AMCON, the mandate of the Corporation does not include dictating to the buyer what to do with the acquired property. Therefore, it was misleading for Koku to claim that AMCON was in anyway involved in the demolition of the Ikoyi property. “What cannot be disputed however is the ownership of Ehimome Properties Limited owned by Mrs. Mary Ehimome Arumemi-Ikhide with 500,000 units of shares in the company; Mr. Martin Arumemi-Ikhide and Dr. Margaret Okonkwo both of who own 250,000 shares each out of a total of 1,000,000 shares, which makes up the total of 100% ownership of the company.” It added, “We consider the sentiment that the property was former residence of the British colonial Governor-General in Nigeria as insensitive currently when the whole world is protesting the ravaging impact of colonialism in African countries including Nigeria. “These companies have ripped-off Nigeria for a long time because the debts have been owed AMCON since 2011/2012 and several genuine efforts made by AMCON to make these companies meet their obligations did not yield any meaningful result. This lack of progress was what led AMCON into throwing two of their companies – Arik Air and Rockson Engineering into receivership.” Aside from these companies feeding off Nigerian taxpayer over the years, AMCON said, Rockson Engineering in particular had not been able to deliver on hundreds of millions of US dollar contracts awarded it for the construction of power generating plants by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company. Some of these contracts, AMCON said, were awarded as far back as 2006 and if the company had completed these projects, like its peers did, a minimum of 2000MW would have been added to the nations generating capacity to the benefit of all Nigerians.