The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has issued new guidelines for the next phase of reopening the economy, which will include the lifting of the ban on religious gatherings in places of worship. Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha who doubles as chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 announced the new guidelines on Monday during the daily press briefing in Abuja. While the ban on interstate travel remains in place, the total lockdown imposed on Kano has been lifted. The SGF said, “After considering all factors mentioned above, the PTF submitted its recommendations and the PRESIDENT has approved the following for implementation over the next four weeks spanning 2nd – 29th June, 2020, subject to review” “Cautious advance into the Second Phase of the national response to COVID-19; Application of science and data to guide the targeting of areas of on-going high transmission of COVID-19 in the country.” It will also include, “Mobilisation of all resources at State and Local Government levels to create public awareness on COVID 19 and improve compliance with non-pharmaceutical interventions within communities; “Sustenance of key non-pharmaceutical interventions that would apply nationwide and include: Ban of gatherings of more than 20 people outside of a workplace.” Others are, “Relaxation of restriction on places of Worship based on guidelines issued by the PTF and Protocols agreed by State Governments, managed access to markets and locations of economic activity to limit the risk of transmission. “Ban on inter-state travels except for movement of agricultural produce, petroleum products, manufactured goods and essential services; mandatory use of non-medical face masks in public places.” The new guidelines will include mandatory provision of handwashing facilities/sanitisers in all public places; extensive temperature checks in public places and maintaining two metres between people in public places. Mustapha said there would be massive information and education campaigns and the deepening of collaborative efforts with the community leaders, civil society, faith-based organisations, traditional institutions, among others. He added, “Continuous mobilisation of State governments to take up greater role in the implementation of the guidelines and advisories provided by the PTF; the continued provision of support by the NCDC to States through guidelines to shape decision-making in responding to high burden LGAs and Wards; and easing the total lockdown of Kano State and introduction of Phase One of the Eased Lockdown.”