Seyitan Babatayo has formally laid a complaint of rape against Oladapo Oyebanjo popularly known as D’banj at the Gender Desk of the Nigeria Police Force in Lagos. Babatayo who narrated her ordeal at the hands police officers after going public with her accusation against the popular music entertainer, said she was still dealing with the aftermath of rape experience, the trauma of recounting it multiple times and the indignity of being held against her will for two days. She has however asked the Attorney General of Lagos State, Moyosore Onigbamjo to take over the case. Babatayo said in a statement on Wednesday that she made the formal complaint on June 22 after trying unsuccessfully to do the same at the Bar Beach Police Station on June 6, 2020 where her attempts were frustrated. She said in the statement, “My story is one I have carried around for almost two years but in the words of Timi Dakolo, when you finally decide  it will amaze you where the needed strength will come from.” According to Babatayo, “On 16th June, almost two weeks after going public with my story, I was arrested by four armed police officers, who under the pretence as delivery agents, gained entry into my home. “I was taken to IGP IRT office in Harold Shodipo, Ikeja and detained in a cell like a criminal. My mum was not arrested contrary to widespread speculation. She said, “In that cell, I had the right to remain silent, limited access to a lawyer, yet still oblivious to the crime I was being detained for. I spent almost 48 hours at the police station, without being charges for a single crime. “When I requested to know the reason for the detention, the police refused to answer, but they continued to treat me like a criminal.” She said her goal, “from the beginning was never financial gain. I was violated by D’banj, that unwarranted and violent experience has never left me. “It has stayed with me for a long time. I demanded an apology then, and still demand for it now. I finally gathered the strength to demand for it in a louder tone!” Oyo State has become the fourth state to record more than 1,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 as the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control reported 67 new cases if the coronavirus disease in the state on Tuesday. Cases in Oyo have been steadily rising and now it has 1,055 confirmed cases. This is just as Lagos which recorded 209 new cases of COVID-19 has seen the number of confirmed cases reach 9,073. Other states with more than 1,000 cases include the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with 1,605 and Kano that has 1,190 cases. Rivers State is not far behind with 930 confirmed cases. The NCDC update showed there were 452 new cases of the disease in Nigeria with 21,371 cases confirmed, 533 deaths and 7,338 recoveries. Only 14 states reported new cases. Delta recorded 37, Ogun 36 and FCT had 22 new cases of COVID-19. In Abia State, there were 20 new cases, Enugu State had 16, Bauchi State reported 15, Kaduna and had Ondo states had eight each, while Osun State had seven. Imo and Benue states reported three each. Borno State reported a single case.