The wife of late Sani Abacha, former Nigerian military dictator, Marayam Abacha has spoken about stolen funds linked to her late husband recovered from abroad. In an interview published by Kano Focus on Saturday, Mrs. Abacha said it was a sin to tell lies against a dead man and leaders. Wondering why no one accused her husband of being a thief when he was alive, Mrs. Abacha said it was a matter of time and the the truth behind the stolen funds would be exposed. She said, “How come this man was not a thief until he died?” “What is this amount of money after 22 years you say oh we have found this amount of money and we’re bringing it back? “It is a shame to tell lies on a dead man! It is a shame to tell lies on your leader. “If he had done wrong, God knows. If other people are putting the wrong on him, it is a matter of time.” Mrs. Abacha, who accused Kano elites of betraying the Abacha family, said though her husband worked for the development of Kano, the Abacha family was hated. Since his demise in 1998, successive governments have beeb recovering funds stashed in banks abroad by late general Sani Abacha. Just last May the Nigerian government confirmed the receipt of $311m looted by late military ruler, Sani Abacha, from the government of the United States of America. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Ministerial Enforcement Task Force on COVID-19 Restrictions has sealed off the Jabi Lake Mall indefinitely for violating the government’s directive on ban on public gathering. The FCTA in a tweet via its official twitter handle on Sunday, announced that the Jabi Lake Mall had been sealed off for breaching Presidential Task Force’s directives on the ban on public gatherings. “The FCT Ministerial Task Team on #COVID19 seals up Jabi Lake Mall indefinitely for violating Presidential Task Force’s directives on the ban on public gatherings as part of measures to contain the spread of the dreaded pandemic in the territory.” Though the FCTA did not state reasons for sealing Jabi Lake Mall, the development is said to be connected to a concert held at Jabi Lake on Saturday in which Azeez Fashola, alias <strong>Naira Marley and his crew members performed. Naira Marley was reported to have flown into Abuja in a private jet alongside his crew to perform at the concert organised by Network Africa and Traffic Bar at the Jabi Lake Mall on Saturday, thereby breaching the COVID-19 ban on public gatherings put in place by the federal government.