The Federal Government has approved the next phase of reopening the economy with the lifting of interstate travel and allowing schools to resume. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha speaking on Monday howver said a lockdown could be imposed on 18 Local Governments in the country. These LGs, he said account for 60 percent of the coronavirus cases . There also still a curfew in place 10pm to 4am during which time interstate travel was not allowed. The SGF said, “Permission of movement across State borders only outside curfew hours with effect from 1st July, 2020.” The government also set limits to the category of students who could go to school limiting it to that are in their final year of primary school, junior secondary school or senior secondary school. That is students in primary six, Junior Secondary School 3 and Senior Secondary School 3 will be allowed to return to school. Mustapha said President Muhammadu Buhari gave the approval for the next phase of reopening the country after he was briefed by the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19. Mustapha who is chairman of the task force said, “​I am pleased to inform you that Mr. President has carefully considered the 5th Interim Report of the PTF and has accordingly approved that, with the exception of some modifications to be expatiated upon later, the Phase Two of the eased lockdown be extended by another four weeks with effect from Tuesday, June 30, 2020 through Midnight of Monday, 27 July, 2020.” He added, ​”Specifically, however, the following measures shall either remain in place or come into effect: Maintaining the current phase of the national response, for another four weeks in line with modifications to be expatiated by the National Coordinator.” Chairman of Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Professor Itse Sagay has called on the federal government to release the detained Shiite leader, Ibrahim El-zakzaky. Sagay made this call in an exclusive interview with The Interview on Monday. READ ALSO: It’s A Pity Judiciary Hasn’t Been Fellow Fighter In Anti-Corruption War – Itse Sagay When asked if there were any legal justification for still detaining El-zakzaky, who has been in detention since 2015 after his sect had a face-off with Nigerian Army, Sagay said El-zakzaky had suffered enough and should be released. He said, “Frankly, I am very sad about his continuous detention. I think it gets to a stage where no matter what the person has done; giving what he has gone through, there should be some compassion in the mind of state authorities. “I think this man (El-zakzaky) has suffered enough. I am from the South. Those in the north are the ones who are very angry and know details of what he has done; how he used to intimidate everybody, zoning some part of the town to his organisation, and being intolerant.” Sagay said El-zakzaky had paid severely for whatever he might have done and that he should be released on compassionate grounds. “I think he has paid a very severe price for whatever wrong he might have done. He has lost children. “That is the worst thing that can happen to human being – to lose a child. But he has lost children. He himself has been injured. His wife has been injured. He has been incarcerated. He is very ill. I think the government, the state, should have compassion and let this man go and rest,” Sagay said.