The Adamawa State police command has confirmed the arrest of its officer who shot dead a 20-year-old commercial motorcycle operator for refusing to part with N100 at a checkpoint in Maiha local government. Wuro-ba Adamu village of Maiha local government was on Monday engulfed in tension after a policeman, Corporal Richard Zaphet, allegedly shot dead a 20-year-old commercial motorcycle operator. The commercial motorcycle operator identified as Arabo Dauda Tambajam was said to have refused to part with the N100 the police officer demanded before he could pass with a keg of petrol he was carrying. Confirming the incident, the police spokesman in the state, Sulaiman Nguroje, said the policeman had been arrested and was currently facing investigation. Nguroje, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) said, “Yes the policeman in question Cpl. Richard Zaphet has since been arrested and brought to the State CID. “The Commissioner of Police has directed an Assistant Commissioner of police to investigate and report for immediate action. The command assures all and sundry that justice will be done on the matter.” Eye witnesses reported that shortly after the incident, enraged youths in their numbers mobilised and moved to administer jungle justice on the trigger-happy policeman. The source said the presence of soldiers whom the police ran to for sanctuary, saved the day as the soldiers prevented the angry mob from lynching the policeman or even going ahead to incinerate the police station in the area. According to residents, the policeman was said to have been deployed from Mubi area command to Maiha. The chairman of Maiha local government, Honourable Idi Amin has also pleaded with the locals not to take laws into their hands as a government will ensure that justice is done on the matter. Amin who visited the hospital were the young man was taken to before he died condemned such reckless behaviour by some law enforcement officers. He assured the people that he would not rest until the slain young man received justice.