The Federal government has suspended the flight company that flew Naira Marley and his crew members to Abuja for a concert indefinitely. Speaking at the Presidential Task Force (PTF) for COVID-19 briefing on Monday, the minister of Aviation Hadi Sirika said that the jet that flew in Naira Marley and his crew members into Abuja had been originally approved to fly a judge, Hon. Justice Adefope Okoji to Abuja. The minister said for giving false information to obtain approval to fly, the airline, ExecuJet Services, have been suspended, adding that the pilots would be sanctioned and that the operators would be heavily fined. “The operation is a clear violation of our approvals which we take seriously, it seems this is becoming a norm, it’s the second time. Execujet services are hereby suspended indefinitely, we’ll also fine them maximally according to the law. “The Captain of the flight will also sanctioned for giving wrong information to the control tower”, Sirika said. The Interview had on Sunday reported how Naira Marley and his crew members flew into Abuja to hold a concert at the Jabi Lake Mall in spite of the subsisting ban on both local and international flights in the country. The Federal Capital Territory Administration Task Force on COVID-19 consequently shut down Jabi Lake Mall for violating COVID-19 public gathering regulations on Sunday. Senator Adebayo Osinowo representing Lagos East Senatorial Zone in the Senate is dead after succumbing to an illness. Osinowo was a member of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) was the chairman of  the senate committee on commerce, industries and investment. Osinowo who was 64 at the time of his death previously served in the Lagos House of Assembly. While the nature of the illness he suffered has not been released to the public reports say that he died at the First Cardiology Consultants Hospital in Lagos, where he was admitted for COVID-19 complications. Osinowo’s death makes it the fourth time a senator is dying in recent months. Among those who have died are Benjamin Uwajumogu, Ignatius Longjan and Rose Oko.