President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) urgently needed redemption from the many internal squabbling threatening its existence. Buhari who addressed the emergency National Executive Council meeting of the party shortly before the former National Working Committee was dissolved, noted that there were several litigation in courts, while the status of some officials could no longer be trusted. The President said recent developments within the party clearly indicated that it was on self-destruction path and that it must be halted immediately. “Fellow party members, this is a very crucial moment in the life of our party and it is with a deep sense of concern that I stand before you today to speak as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria who has been elected on the platform of our great party – the All Progressives Congress. “The issues currently confronting our party at this time are such that should worry every party member. At the moment, our great party is faced with internal wrangling; there are on-going litigation amongst some party members and we cannot clearly ascertain the status of certain National Working Committee (NWC) members”, he told the session. Buhari added, “There are also other associated disputes as to the legitimacy or otherwise of holders of certain national offices of the party.  The party is also contending with judicial claims and counter-claims, orders and counter orders   and   indeed   judgments   and   counter-judgments   that   are   predominantly at cross-purposes. “Confronted with these issues, it is obvious that the fortunes of the party are currently   in   jeopardy,   administration   of   our   party   is   becoming impossible and there is consequently an urgent need for intervention to immediately arrest further drifts and internal wrangling which may lead to total disintegration. “What   we   see   clearly   emerging,   is   that   we   are beginning   to   self-destruct.   This, my dear party members, is not just regrettable but utterly gut   wrenching.’’ The NEC meeting, which had Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo in attendance, was also attended by Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila. Many APC governors also attended the meeting, among other key party members. The NEC endorsed four recommendations proposed by Buhari; dissolution of the NWC; withdrawal of all litigation; ratification of the governorship primaries held in Edo State, which produced Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the party’s candidate; and the appointment of a caretaker committee to plan the next National Convention of the party. READ ALSO: Buhari Dissolves APC NWC As Yobe Governor Heads Caretaker Committee Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, was appointed as the Chairman of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Committee. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, immediately inaugurated him. The committee is to oversee the affairs of the party in the next six months and hold the convention in December. Up to 15 governors attended the NEC meeting, which was held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, starting about 12pm. The governors in attendance included those of Nasarawa, Niger, Jigawa, Yobe, Plateau, Kogi, Imo, Gombe, Osun, Ogun, Lagos, Kwara, Ekiti, Kano and Kebbi states. The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege; Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase; House Majority Leader, Alhassan Ad-Dogowa; and the Deputy Chief Whip, House of Representatives, Nnenna Ukeje, attended the meeting.