Embattled governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki on Sunday gave the first indication of where he’s headed politically with a well publicised visit to Governor Nysom Wike of Rivers State. Both Obaseki and Wike are in opposing political parties but there have been rumours that Obaseki is about to join the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Nothing was said about what both governors discussed but unless state executives want to make a political statement, they usually hold meeting meetings in the dead of night. Last week Obaseki was disqualified from the APC governorship primaries in Edo over what the screening committee described as discrepancies in his credentials. The disqualification came after a long running battle with Adam’s Oshiomhole, the national chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Obaseki and Oshiomhole were once political allies, but the APC national chairman is now said to be backing a different candidate for governor. On Saturday, former vice president, Atiku Abubakar had reportedly reached out to Obaseki to join the PDP and even encouraged state governors under the party to make room for the Edo governor. The wife of late Sani Abacha, former Nigerian military dictator, Marayam Abacha has spoken about stolen funds linked to her late husband recovered from abroad. In an interview published by Kano Focus on Saturday, Mrs. Abacha said it was a sin to tell lies against a dead man and leaders. Wondering why no one accused her husband of being a thief when he was alive, Mrs. Abacha said it was a matter of time and the the truth behind the stolen funds would be exposed. She said, “How come this man was not a thief until he died?” “What is this amount of money after 22 years you say oh we have found this amount of money and we’re bringing it back? “It is a shame to tell lies on a dead man! It is a shame to tell lies on your leader. “If he had done wrong, God knows. If other people are putting the wrong on him, it is a matter of time.” Mrs. Abacha, who accused Kano elites of betraying the Abacha family, said though her husband worked for the development of Kano, the Abacha family was hated. Since his demise in 1998, successive governments have beeb recovering funds stashed in banks abroad by late general Sani Abacha. Just last May the Nigerian government confirmed the receipt of $311m looted by late military ruler, Sani Abacha, from the government of the United States of America.