Oyo State has become the fourth state to record more than 1,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 as the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control reported 67 new cases if the coronavirus disease in the state on Tuesday. Cases in Oyo have been steadily rising and now it has 1,055 confirmed cases. This is just as Lagos which recorded 209 new cases of COVID-19 has seen the number of confirmed cases reach 9,073. Other states with more than 1,000 cases include the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with 1,605 and Kano that has 1,190 cases. Rivers State is not far behind with 930 confirmed cases. The NCDC update showed there were 452 new cases of the disease in Nigeria with 21,371 cases confirmed, 533 deaths and 7,338 recoveries. Only 14 states reported new cases. Delta recorded 37, Ogun 36 and FCT had 22 new cases of COVID-19. In Abia State, there were 20 new cases, Enugu State had 16, Bauchi State reported 15, Kaduna and had Ondo states had eight each, while Osun State had seven. Imo and Benue states reported three each. Borno State reported a single case. The Ghanaian president, Nana Akufo-Addo, on Tuesday called President Muhammadu Buhari to apologise for the demolition of some buildings on the premises of Nigerian High Commission in Accra, Ghana. Some armed men had invaded the Nigerian High Commission in Accra demolishing some buildings in the premises last week Friday, prompting the Nigerian minister of foreign affairs Geoffrey Onyeama, to summon Ghana High Commissioner on Monday. In a statement on Tuesday evening, Senior Special Assistant to President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said the Ghanaian president had called president Buhari to apologise over the attack. Shehu said that President Nana Akufo-Addo expressed his sincere apology for demolition of a building on the premises of Nigerian High Commission in Accra, Ghana. “In a telephone call, the Ghanaian leader told President Buhari that he has directed full investigation into the incident. Shehu also said that some suspects linked to the invasion of Nigerian High Commission in Ghana had been arrested and would be arraigned in court. Before now, the Ghanaian government had vowed to investigate and bring to book those behind the invasion and demolition of the some apartment buildings at the Nigerian High Commission in Accra, adding that the attack was a clear “breach of Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations VCDR 1961).”