The Ghanaian president, Nana Akufo-Addo, on Tuesday called President Muhammadu Buhari to apologise for the demolition of some buildings on the premises of Nigerian High Commission in Accra, Ghana. Some armed men had invaded the Nigerian High Commission in Accra demolishing some buildings in the premises last week Friday, prompting the Nigerian minister of foreign affairs Geoffrey Onyeama, to summon Ghana High Commissioner on Monday. In a statement on Tuesday evening, Senior Special Assistant to President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said the Ghanaian president had called president Buhari to apologise over the attack. Shehu said that President Nana Akufo-Addo expressed his sincere apology for demolition of a building on the premises of Nigerian High Commission in Accra, Ghana. “In a telephone call, the Ghanaian leader told President Buhari that he has directed full investigation into the incident. Shehu also said that some suspects linked to the invasion of Nigerian High Commission in Ghana had been arrested and would be arraigned in court. Before now, the Ghanaian government had vowed to investigate and bring to book those behind the invasion and demolition of the some apartment buildings at the Nigerian High Commission in Accra, adding that the attack was a clear “breach of Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations VCDR 1961).” Chief Victor Giadom, one of the members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) laying claim to the chairmanship of the party, has convened a virtual meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC). Giadom, who declared himself acting national chairman of the party based on a court order following an Appeal Court ruling which upheld the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole as the party’s National Chairman, made this announcement in a statement on Tuesday. He said the virtual NEC meeting which would hold on June 25 at 12pm, is in strict compliance to COVID-19 guidelines. “I, Chief Hon. Victor Giadom, on behalf of the National Working Committee (NWC) and having been duly authorised by Court Order to Act as National Chairman of our great party and to preside over all meetings of the NWC and NEC hereby reconvene the NEC meeting that was earlier billed to hold on the 17th of March 2020 but was postponed. “In keeping strictly to the COVID-19 Guidelines, the reconvened National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting shall hold by virtual means. The codes would be communicated through text messages to members of the National Executive Committee”, he said. This development is coming after protesters stormed the National Secretariat on Monday, demanding that all members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) be sacked. Reports also said that Police officers had sealed the APC Secretariat on Tuesday. However, a statement by DCP Frank Mba, the Nigeria Police Public Relations Officer (PRO), on Tuesday said that the officers seen at the secretariat were ordered by to maintain law and order, within and around APC National Secretariat.