The Ghanaian government has vowed to investigate and bring to book those behind the invasion and demolition of the some apartment buildings at the Nigerian High Commission in Accra on Friday. The Nigerian government had on Sunday called on it Ghanaian counterpart to urgently find those behind the attack. In a statement shared via Ghanaian ministry of foreign affairs Twitter handle on Sunday, Ghanaian government said the attack was a clear “breach of Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations VCDR 1961).” The statement reads, “It has come to the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Regional integration that unidentified individuals had allegedly breached the premises of the Nigeria High Commission in Accra and demolished its property under construction around 10:30pm on Friday, 19 June, 2020 The Ministry views with concern this development which is a breach of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations VCDR 1961). The statement added that investigations were ongoing to unravel the facts of the matter and bring the perpetrators to book and that the government has beefed up security at the said facility and the situation is under control. “Accordingly, investigations are ongoing to unravel the facts of the matter and bring the perpetrators to book. Meanwhile, the Government of Ghana has beefed up security at the said facility and the situation is under control “Whilst expressing regrets over the incident, the Ministry wishes to reassure the Diplomatic community in Ghana and the Nigeria High Commission in particular that Ghana remains a law-abiding country that upholds the principle of the rule of law, where due process is followed at all times. The Government therefore, not relent on its primary obligation to guarantee the safety of Members of the Diplomatic Corps in Ghana”, the statement said. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) will on Tuesday 23rd of June 2020, unveil a five- year (2020-2024) Strategic Management Plan (SMP). A statement released on Sunday by the director of public affairs at NCC,  Dr. Henry Nkemadu said the SMP that wwould be unveiled that day will leverage the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) as well as the new National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020 2025 Roadmaps. It will also cover the guiding principles and act as the operations manual for the Commission towards actualising the digital economy agenda of the Federal Government in the next five years. Nkemadu said, “Essentially, the SMP, which was developed in-house with the stamp of the Management and Board, is a visioning document of the Commission for planning, monitoring, analysing and assessment of the Commission’s goals and objectives in the next five years. “It will be resident in the Corporate Planning, Strategy and Risk Management Department, which will ensure that the contents of the document become the guiding principles for the Commission in the next five years.” The Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami will unveil and launch the NCC Strategic Management Plan (SMP) 2020-2024 supported by the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of the NCC, Professor Adeolu Akande and the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta. Nkemadu noted that Danbatta had since extended invitations to all the heads of parastatals under the ministry and all stakeholders to virtually witness the once-in-five-years launch.