Not many knew that the Instagram twins sensation Oiza and Meyi were the daughters of former newscaster on Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Eugenia Abu. The duo found fame on Instagram in February this year when they entertained fans with their bathroom singing sessions. The Interview caught up with them and discussed their rising profile. Which one of you evinced your interest in music first? Meyi: It’s hard to say for sure. We both showed interest in music at an early age. Would you describe your family as musical? Oiza: Yes, our family is very musical. Meyi: Our maternal grandmother, father and elder sister had/have  beautiful voices although they never pursued a career in it. The rest of our siblings and our mother are musically inclined and sometimes help us with creating harmonies and sharpening our lyrics. Who came up with the bathroom idea? Oiza: It was Meyi. Sometime in January, we both had makeup on at the same time when we had nowhere to go (a rare occurrence), and she said to me “let’s do a video”. She dragged me to the bathroom and that’s how the idea was born. The sound we had in the bathroom was very close to a professional sound because of the natural reverberation, so we just stuck with it. Would you say the Instagram platform offers the same opportunities for critical appraisal of creative works as secular channels? Meyi: I honestly think it does. Because social media provides an avenue for more direct feedback between us and our audience. Can one truly convert Instagram acclaim to tangible appreciation and what evidence is there? Oiza: Yes we believe that it is possible. With the right content and targeted audience Instagram acclaim can become tangible appreciation. For example, content creators like Maraji, Tacoma, josh2funny e.t.c have all landed themselves endorsements from different companies and brands in Nigeria and elsewhere, all through their social media influence. We listen to all types of music from Fela to Mamman Shata. A lot of ‘old school’ musicians inspire us, both foreign and local. But we’d say Asa and Adele are some of our biggest influencers Since you began posting your music online, is there a pressure to migrate from Instagram to the real stage? Meyi: No there isn’t. Before we started putting our content on social media, we did a lot of stage performances. That’s our first love. Our dad studied Theatre and Performing Art. I remember at a very early stage in our lives, he taught us about working on stage and other aspects of performing. It isn’t any pressure and if it was, it’s one that we welcome with open arms. Who was the first celebrity that paid you a compliment on your music videos online and how did you react to that recognition? Meyi: The first celebrity to pay us a compliment on social media was Olu Maintain. We were so excited when we saw it. We made noise that day to the extent that our siblings were tired of hearing our voices.  We might even frame the comment and put it on our night stand. What opportunities have come your way since you started your Instagram music video posts? Meyi: A lot of opportunities have come and there are more to come hopefully, but seeing as the world is on pause right now everything has to go on pause as well. Hopefully, after this global pandemic is over we’d be able to give more information on that. Your lyrics are often full of sarcasm. Is that intentional? Meyi: We are just funny. Oiza: Actually, it’s not intentional at all. We’ve always been considered witty and most of our songs reflect the everyday experiences of our lives packaged with funny things that happen to us on a daily basis. We just write what we see. Which music artistes inspire you the most? Oiza: We are inspired by a lot of artistes. We listen to all types of music from Fela to Mamman Shata. A lot of ‘old school’ musicians inspire us, both foreign and local. But we’d say Asa and Adele are some of our biggest influencers.