We Won’t Attend GiadomThe National Working Committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC), has threatened to boycott the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting convened by Victor Giadom, saying it’s “illegal and unconstitutional.’ President Buhari had earlier on Wednesday recognised Giadom as the party’s acting national chairman and declared he would attend the virtual National Executive Council meeting convened by Giadom on Thursday. READ ALSO: Buhari Says Giadom Is APC Acting National Chairman However, in a statement signed by Ntufam Hillard Etta and Waziri Bulama, Ag National Secretary of APC on Wednesday evening, the NWC said it would boycott the NEC meeting convened by Giadom because it was unconstitutional. The statement read, “The National Working Committee (NWC) regrets to turn down the Invitation to the illegal and unconstitutional National Executive Committee (NEC) convened by Chief Victor Giadom. “We believe that attending such a meeting will amount to embracing illegalities and turning a blind eye to the infractions on the Constitution of our great Party. The NWC urged President Muhammad Buhari not to attend the virtual NEC meeting, adding that his doing so will amount to backing illegality and criminality. “We wish to unequivocally state that members of the National Working Committee (NWC believe that the President was offered wrong advice or blackmailed into lending his weighty office to the illegality of the National Executive Committee meeting purportedly convened by one Victor Giadom on 25 June, 2020 “We hereby respectfully implore Mr. President to kindly avail himself with facts of the matter regarding the impasse presently experienced by the Party so to guide him in his assessment of the matter because we are sure that the President if properly advised, would come to the conclusion that the meeting convened by Chief Victor Giadom bothers on illegality and criminality”, the statement read. Since an Appeal Court upheld the suspension of APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, the party has been in crisis as members scramble to be in control of its leadership. The number of new cases of COVID-19 have continued to surge in Oyo State as it recorded 100 new cases on Wednesday according to the latest update from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The new figures show the state recording at least 100 cases for the second time in one week, and for three consecutive days, only Lagos State reported more new cases than Oyo. It has a total of 1,155 confirmed cases of the Coronavirus disease compared with Lagos, which now has 9,323 confirmed cases. On Wednesday, Lagos State recorded 250 new cases. Across the country, 649 new cases of the disease were reported by the NCDC, with the death toll standing at 542. A total 22,020 cases have been confirmed and 7,613 patients discharged. Plateau and Delta states, recording 40 new cases each also saw an increase in the number of new infections. Abia State reported 28 new cases, Kaduna State had 27  Ogun State recorded 22, Edo State had 20, while Akwa Ibom State saw 18 new cases. There were 17 new cases in Kwara State with the Federal Cappital territory (FCT) reporting the same number. Enugu State had 14, Niger and Adamawa states had 13 each, while Bayelsa State had seven. Osun and Bauchi states had six cases each, Anambra State had four, Gombe State had three, Sokoto State had two, while Imo and Kano had one each.