There are serious concerns over the health status of former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, who had been reported to be in intensive care at First Cardiology Consultant Hospital in Lagos. The former governor has been hospitalised at the hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. However, the social media space on Thursday night was flooded with news of his  death from COVID-19 complications. The Interview had previously reported that Ajimobi was in intensive care at the same medical facility. No family or close associate has however officially confirmed the state of his health. Ajimobi reportedly has underlying medical conditions. He was only  recently named as acting chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) after an Appeal Court affirmed the suspension of national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole as a member of the party. The Interview however learnt that his wife, Florence Ajimobi may also still be receiving treatment at the same hospital. Ajimobi’s fate may have serious impact on the leadership crisis currently rocking the APC as several people are laying claim to office of the party chairman in acting capacity after Oshiomhole’s suspension. The National Working Committee of APC had thrown its weight behind Ajimobi who is the Deputy National Chairman,  Southwest. Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party spokesman, in a statement had said that, “The national working committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) rose from a meeting at the party’s national secretariat on Wednesday affirming senator Abiola Ajimobi as the Party’s Acting National Chairman following the Appeal Court’s ruling affirming the suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as National chairman and in line with Section 14.2 (iii) of the Party’s Constitution.” He added, “Due to senator Ajimobi’s unavoidable absence, NWC unanimously appointed the Party’s National Vice Chairman (South South), Prince Hilliard Etta to act on Sen. Ajimobi’s behalf, an action backed by the Party’s constitution which empowers the NWC to appoint one of its members in acting capacity and stipulates that the acting National chairman must be from the zone of the National Chairman.” Women’s rights activists in Nigeria have vowed to petition the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, over what they consider the misuse of police officers to intimidate and muzzle rape victims. The last couple of weeks in Nigeria have witnessed many incidents of sexual violence, with several women coming out on social media to call out men who had sexually abused them in the past. One of such women is Ms. Seyitan Babatayo who called out popular Nigerian singer, Dapo Oyebanjo aka D’banj, for raping her at Glee hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos, in 2018. However, things took an unexpected turn on Tuesday when the IGP’s Intelligence Response Team, headed by the ACP Abba Kyari, was said to have arrested Ms. Babatayo on the directives of the singer and his manager, one Damian Okorafor. It took combined efforts of several women rights activists to effect her bail on Thursday, after she had already spent one night in detention with criminals. However, speaking to The Interview on Thursday evening, the executive director of Project Alert on Violence Against Women, Mrs. Josephine Effah-Chukwuma, said the time had come to put an end to this sort of misuse of power by some officers of the Nigerian police. “Enough is enough. We are going to petition the IGP so that he knows what his people are doing. This is also what they did in Busola Dakolo’s case,” Effah-Chukwuma, who is one of the activists who facilitated Babatayo’s release from detention, told The Interview. She said it had become a dangerous trend of the IGP’s IRT team to go after women who call out their violators and seek justice for their victimisation, insisting that the practice must be stopped. Speaking on Babatayo’s whereabouts, she stated, “She has been under so much pressure, she’s so traumatised right now that we had send her to professionals so she could get psycho-social support. But she’s safe for now”.