The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 403 new cases of COVID-19 with Gombe State accounting for 73 of the cases, the highest reported by any state. After several days of recording more than 100 new cases, Lagos State in the new NCDC update on Sunday had only 68 new cases. The total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria has risen to 16,085 with 5,220 discharged and 420 reported deaths. Kano State which has the third highest number of new infections recorded 46 new cases. Edo State had 36 new cases, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) recorded 35, Nasarawa State had 31, Kaduna State had 17, Oyo State had 16, while Abia State had 15. Delta and Borno states had 13 new cases each, Plateau State had eight, while Niger and Ruvers states had seven cases each. Enugu and Ogun states had six new cases each, Kebbi State had three, Ondo, Anambra and Imo states each had a single case. Embattled governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki on Sunday gave the first indication of where he’s headed politically with a well publicised visit to Governor Nysom Wike of Rivers State. Both Obaseki and Wike are in opposing political parties but there have been rumours that Obaseki is about to join the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Nothing was said about what both governors discussed but unless state executives want to make a political statement, they usually hold meeting meetings in the dead of night. Last week Obaseki was disqualified from the APC governorship primaries in Edo over what the screening committee described as discrepancies in his credentials. The disqualification came after a long running battle with Adam’s Oshiomhole, the national chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Obaseki and Oshiomhole were once political allies, but the APC national chairman is now said to be backing a different candidate for governor. On Saturday, former vice president, Atiku Abubakar had reportedly reached out to Obaseki to join the PDP and even encouraged state governors under the party to make room for the Edo governor.