The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared Africa free of the wild polio virus. Nigeria was the last country on the continent to been declared free of wild polio. The declaration was made in a statement jointly by the WHO Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus; and President of Rotary International, Holger Knaack. The statement said, “Delivering polio vaccines to every child in the African region and wiping out the wild virus is no small feat and the human resources, skills, and experience gained in the process leaves behind a legacy in how to tackle diseases and reach the poorest and most marginalized communities with life-saving services” Leadership from all levels of government across party lines, a historic public-private partnership that, the statement said, “raised billions, millions of health workers reaching children across the region – from conflict zones to remote areas only accessible by motorbike or helicopter – and a culture of continual improvement were all critical to overcoming challenges and bottlenecks.” The WHO said, “As countries work to suppress COVID-19, many of the same basic traditional public health methods used in polio eradication, including contact tracing and surveillance, are key to breaking the chains of transmission and saving lives and livelihoods from the first coronavirus pandemic in human history “As recently as 2012 half of all globally recorded cases of wild poliovirus were in Nigeria, the final country in the region to rid the virus from its borders. However, as with the COVID-19 pandemic, the lesson is that it’s never too late to turn a disease outbreak around. Through hard work, new innovations and ensuring that no child was missed, Nigeria and the entire African region have now defeated polio.” The United Nations body said, “Across the region, health workers go village-to-village and door-to-door vaccinating children multiple times and offering health advice and support to the community. It’s a remarkable effort started by Rotary International, which in the 1980s – when there were hundreds of thousands of cases every year – made a global call for eradication. “While thanking and congratulating governments, health workers, civil society and all groups that have been part of this titanic struggle; it is important to use the momentum to invest further in health systems, as well as the health worker force, to protect people from this pandemic, and prepare them for future disease outbreaks.” The Governing Council of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) has approved the election Professor Folasade Ogunsola as Acting Vice Chancellor of the university. The university has been in crisis since the sacking of the Vice Chancellor, Oluwatoyin Ogundipe by the Wale Babalakin led Governing Council. READ ALSO: UNILAG Senate Elects Folasade Ogunsola As First Female VC President Muhammadu Buhari would later suspend both Babalakin and Ogundipe, appointing John Momoh as acting chairman of the Governing Council and asking the senate of the University to appoint an acting Vice-Chancellor. The senate on Monday elected Ogunsola as acting VC and on Tuesday, August 25, 2020, the Council, sitting in an emergency meeting after Momoh’s appointment ratified her election  as acting VC. READ ALSO: Buhari Suspends UNILAG Pro-Chancellor, Wale Babalakin The meeting which was held virtually was the first to be chaired by Momoh, who is also the chairman and chief executive of Channels Television.