Amnesty International on Wednesday called on the Federal government to release #RevolutionNow protesters who were arrested by security operatives on Wednesday. A joint security team of Nigerian soldiers and police officers harassed and arrested #RevolutionNow at Unity Fountain Abuja and on the streets of Lagos earlier on Wednesday. Omoyele Sowore, the publisher of Sahara Reporters, is the convener of the protest tagged “national day of action”, held in major cities of the country in commemoration of the first anniversary of the #RevolutionNow Movement held on August 5, 2019. READ ALSO: Nigerian Security Agents Crack Down On #RevolutionNow Protesters Reacting to the arrest of protesters, Amnesty International via its official Twitter handle condemned the act and called on the government to free those arrested. “We demand immediate release of all protesters arrested today. Protest is a human right and no one should be arrested for exercising their right to freedom of assembly and speech”, the tweet read. #RevolutionNow protesters are calling on the federal government to tackle issues borders on insecurity and. poverty in the country. Last year, Sowore was arrested and detained for four months by the State Security Service for planning #RevolutionNow protest. The Edo State House of Assembly on Wednesday impeached the deputy speaker, Yekini Idiaye. The House of Assembly elected in his place, Roland Asoro who represents Orhionmwon II state constituency. READ ALSO: 14 Legislators, 18 LG Chairmen Join Obaseki In PDP The state assembly has been caught in the middle of the political fight between the state governor, Godwin Obaseki and a former national chairman of the APC,  Adam’s Oshiomhole. The governor’s defection to the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) from the ruling APC has further aggravated tensions in the state house of assembly. READ ALSO: Obaseki Joins PDP, Eyes Governorship Ticket The impeached deputy speaker, Idiaye had reportedly endorsed the governorship candidate of the APC, Osagie Ize-Iyamu against Obaseki who had initially been elected under the platform of the APC but is now the PDP candidate.