The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on Thursday said the resumption of international flights had now been postponed to September 5, 2020. The Director-General of the NCAA, Musa Shuaibu Nuhu, disclosed this during a Presidential Task Force COVID-19 briefing in Abuja. “We have other non-aviation logistics we are still working on, mostly the COVID-19 protocol tests and online platform,” he said. “We need to get this ready.” READ ALSO: International Flights May Resume Before October – Hadi Sirika Recall that the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Siriki, had on August 17, (10 days ago), announced a resumption of International flights from August 29, 2020. The announcement was coming five months after suspending international travel in the country as a measure to curtail the spread of COVID-19 in the country. READ ALSO: Nigeria To Resume International Flights August 29 However, Nuhu during the briefing on Thursday, insisted that the new September 5 resumption date was sacrosanct, noting that “the initial announcement was anytime from the 29th.” “In due course, we will be announcing the protocols for the resumptions and we will be giving further details,” he said. “Hopefully early next week, we will release this.” Edo State Police Command has paraded six suspects in the rape and murder of Vera Uwaila Omizuwa, a 100-level student of the University of Benin, Edo back in May 2020. Omozuwa had survived the initial attack, which occurred inside the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Ikpoba Hill in Benin City, but died shortly after in a hospital. READ ALSO: President Buhari Orders Police To Fish Out Uwaila Omozuwa’s Killers Johnson Kokumo, the Edo State Commissioner, paraded the suspects on Thursday saying it was a result of a united effort of the police, particularly, the interest shown by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. Kokuma said postmortem confirmed that the victim was raped and also that the suspects had confessed. The six paraded suspects including two women were; Nelson Ogbebor, Akato Valentine, Tina Samuel, Mary Ade, Nosa Osabohien and Collins Ulegbe. READ ALSO: We’re Working With Police To Bring Uwa’s Killers To Book – Pastor Adeboye The Police Commissioner said, “What we are seeing today, is a result of the uniting efforts of the police to get at the root of the crime, and today, I announce to you and making public through this medium that the perpetrators have been arrested.”