Femi Fani-Kayode, former Minister of Aviation, has finally apologised to Eyo Charles, the Daily Trust journalist he verbally assaulted during a press conference in Calabar, Cross River state on August 20. After a media backlash over the Calabar incident which was captured on video, Fani-Kayode had apologised to his friends in the media but made no direct apology to Charles. Charles, a correspondent with Daily Trust had asked Fani-Kayode who was funding all his trips to the Southern states he is currently touring, leading to the attack from the former minister. At a different press conference in the Akwa Ibom state government house on Friday August 28, Fani-Kayode asked Charles for forgiveness, saying “I’m deeply sorry for the manner I reacted to what the said reporter. “I was too hard on him. The question was mischievous, but I fell for it. I should have been smarter than that. I am using this opportunity to reach out to him, and I hope he will be kind enough to forgive me.” Fani-Kayode said, “I disappointed myself, my family and friends, my colleagues and even my bosses, those who hold me in high esteem. I have regrets, it was not my finest day.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 160 new cases of COVID-19 infections in the country,  the lowest since May 12, when 146 cases were reported. Apart from the drop in new cases, there was also a decrease in the number of states who reported new cases on Friday, with only 15 states recording cases. Plateau once again recorded the highest number of new cases, the fourth straight day it is doing so. It has 44 new cases. Lagos has witnessed the biggest drop in new cases with 27 infections.  Just five days earlier, it reported close 100 new cases. Katsina reported the third highest number of new infections with 18,  while Edo had 15. The FCT had 14 cases and Ondo had 10. Oyo had new new infections,  Kwara had six, Abia and Nasarawa had four each, Kano had three while Ekiti and Kaduna had two each. Kebbi and Ogun each reported one new cases. There are now 53,477 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infections in Nigeria, 41,017 patuents discharged and 1,011 deaths recorded.