The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Friday reported 462 new cases of COVID-19, with the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) accounting for 93 of the cases. READ ALSO: FCT Records 100 New Cases Of COVID-19 It makes the second day running at which the capital city reported more new cases than Lagos. It recorded 96 new cases on Thursday. On Friday, the NCDC reported only one death, while 295 patients were discharged. Nigeria now has a total of 43,151 confirmed, 19,565 patients discharged and 879 recorded deaths. Lagos State, had the second highest number of new cases with 78. Plateau State recorded 64 new cases, Kaduna State had 54 and had Oyo State 47. READ ALSO: FCTA Health Secretary Tests Positive For COVID-19 In Ondo State, there were 32 new cases,  23 in Adamawa State, 19 in Bauchi State, nine each in Rivers, Ogun and Delta states, while Edo State had seven. Kano and Enugu states each had six new cases, Nasarawa State reported five and Osun State had one. Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi has tested negaitive for COVID-19 after 11 days in isolation. Fayemi, who tested positive eleven days ago, disclosed via his twitter handle on Saturday that the COVID-19 test he took while in isolation had returned negative. He said, “After 11 days in isolation, I received news that my CoviD 19 repeat test came back negative. My sincere gratitude goes to God Almighty, my family, my medical team and all well wishers for the prayers and solidarity. We must continue to do all we can to tackle the pandemic. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Governor Fayemi Contracts COVID-19 Fayemi is the seventh serving Nigerian governor to have contracted COVID-19 and also recovered. Other six state governors who have tested positive for COVID-19 and recovered include; Bala Mohammed, Governor of Bauchi State; Nasir El-Rufai, the governor of Kaduna State, Seyi Makinde, Governor of Oyo State, Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State, Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Ekiti State has recorded 133 cases, discharged 55 patients and recorded 2 deaths so far as a result of COVID-19.