The State Security Services (SSS) has for the second time in less than a week invited  to its office Obadiah Mailafia, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and onetime presidential candidate. Mailafia  is to appear at the SSS office in Jos, Plateau State on Monday by 12 noon according to his lawyer, Yakubu Bawa. READ ALSO: Northern Governor Commander Of Boko Haram – Mailafia Obadiah Mailafia had in an interview Nigeria Info 99.3 FM alleged that a northern governor had the commander of Boko Haram, naming repentant terrorists as his source. The SSS invited him to appear on Wednesday, August 12, 2020 where he had reportedly apologised. READ ALSO: Boko Haram Governor: Mailafia Changes Story, Names Traders As His Informants Bawa, his lawyer suggested the latest  invitation was a follow up on the previous one and did not expect the encounter be any different from the first. The Bayelsa Governorship Election Tribunal sitting in Abuja has nullified the election Governor Duoye Diri of Bayelsa State. The judges ruling on Monday based their decision on the exclusion of King George, the candidate of ADP, in the November 16, 2019 governorship election. The election had initially been won by David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress but he disqualified by the Supreme Court in February just hours before his inauguration, paving the way for Diri of the People’s Democratic Party to claim victory. READ ALSO: INEC Declares PDP’s Duoye Diri Winner Of Bayelsa Election The tribunal, in the ruling ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct fresh elections within 90 days. Two days earlier, the election tribunal dismissed three petitions challenging the election if the Bayelsa governor. READ ALSO: Supreme Court Dismisses APC’s Application For Bayelsa Judgment Review A three man panel sitting in Abuja in a unanimous decision led by Justice S.M. Owodunni dismissed the petition of the Alliance for Democracy for lacking merit. The petitioner, the judges said  had failed to prove the allegations of the forged declaration of age and the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) discharged certificate levelled against the Deputy Governor, Senator Lawrence. READ ALSO: Bayelsa: Supreme Court Fines APC Lawyers N60m Another dismissed petition was by United Peoples Congress, which sought the annulment of Diri’s election.