The State Security Service (SSS) has invited former Speaker of the House of Representatives, and now a co-chairman of the National Consultative Front (NCFront), Ghali Umar Na’Abba, to its office in Monday, August 17, 2029. While the SSS has made no public statement on the invitation or gave reasons for it, the newly formed NCFront has said it iss due to an appearance by the former speaker on Channels Television, where he was very critical of the performance of the Nigerian government. The spokesman of NCFront, Yunusa Tanko, said in a statement on Saturday that Na’Abba was committed to honouring the invitation. READ ALSO: SSS Invites Mailafia For Saying Northern Governor Is Boko Haram Commander
He said, “Please, be notified that the DSS, on Friday, sent an invitation to NCFront Co-Chair and Former Speaker of Nigeria, Rt Hon Ghali Umar Na’Abba after his very profound interview on Channels Television on Thursday, with regards to the NCFront agenda to bring about a new Nigeria that works for all. “However, our leader, Ghali Umar Na’Abba, has decided to honour the DSS invitation and therefore shall be visiting the DSS Headquarters in Abuja, on Monday, at 12 noon.” He said, “All NCFront organs, structures and allies nationwide are, by this notice, put on the alert as eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday reported one more death and 325 new cases of COVID-19 in country. The NCDC update shows there are now a total of 48,770 confirmed cases of the Coronavirus Disease, with 36,290 patients discharged and 974 deaths. Lagos State recorded the highest number of new cases with 87, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 49, Gombe State had 28 and Ebonyi State had 20 cases. In Plateau State, there were 19 new cases, 18 in Kwara State, 17 in Enugu State, 12 each in Imo and Rivers states, 11 in Kaduna State and 10 in Ogun State. Edo and Oyo states each had nine new cases, Ondo and Osun states each had eight cases, Ekiti State had four, while Borno, Kano, Bauchi  Nasarawa states each had a single case.