Edo State Police Command has paraded six suspects in the rape and murder of Vera Uwaila Omizuwa, a 100-level student of the University of Benin, Edo back in May 2020. Omozuwa had survived the initial attack, which occurred inside the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Ikpoba Hill in Benin City, but died shortly after in a hospital. READ ALSO: President Buhari Orders Police To Fish Out Uwaila Omozuwa’s Killers Johnson Kokumo, the Edo State Commissioner, paraded the suspects on Thursday saying it was a result of a united effort of the police, particularly, the interest shown by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. Kokuma said postmortem confirmed that the victim was raped and also that the suspects had confessed. The six paraded suspects including two women were; Nelson Ogbebor, Akato Valentine, Tina Samuel, Mary Ade, Nosa Osabohien and Collins Ulegbe. READ ALSO: We’re Working With Police To Bring Uwa’s Killers To Book – Pastor Adeboye The Police Commissioner said, “What we are seeing today, is a result of the uniting efforts of the police to get at the root of the crime, and today, I announce to you and making public through this medium that the perpetrators have been arrested.” Akinwunmi Adesina on Thursday was re-elected as the President of the Africa Development Bank. Adesina, a former minister of agriculture in Nigeria was the only candidate vying for the position. He was re-elected by the Board of Governors of the Bank at the ongoing AfDB’s virtual annual meeting. READ ALSO: ‘I Will Continue To Support You,’ Buhari Assures Adesina, AfDB President President Muhammadu Buhari’s Personal Assistant on Social Media, Lauretta Onochie confirmed the reelction of Adesina in congratulatory tweet. Onochie wrote, “Our very own Akinwumi Akin Adesina has been reaffirmed as the President of the African Development Bank. READ ALSO: Obasanjo Tells African Leaders To Defy US Demands On Investigating Adesina Akinwumi Adesina had been accused by whistleblowers in a 15-page report earlier this year mismanaging the bank, poor governance, impunity, personal enrichment and favouritism. This had put the possibility of his re-election in jeopardy as there calls, especially from the United States for an independent panel to investigations even after the bank’s in-house team had cleared him of all wrongdoing. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s Adesina Cleared Of Wrong Doing At AfDB However, an independent panel of experts, headed by former Irish president Mary Robinson, in July cleared of all corruption charges.