The Federal Government has extended by four weeks, the current phase in easing the lockdown imposed to contained the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Secretary to the Government of of the Federation,  Boss Mustapha, on Thursday during Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 media briefing that President Muhammadu Buhari has given approval for extension. READ ALSO: 17 More Nigerians Die From COVID-19 During the extension, Mustapha said the federal government would continue to work with both state and local governments to improve awareness on the COVID-19 response, contact tracing and grassroots mobilisation. He said that after due consideration of the recommendations, “Mr President approved the following: Maintaining the current phase of the National Response to COVID-19 for another four weeks in line with the modifications reflected in the Report. ” READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase He added that the extension was an opportunity to: “Strengthen collaboration with other mandate groups at federal/state levels to harmonise the country’s COVID-19 response, on the short, medium and long-term basis. “Mandate State authorities and the FCT, to enforce non-pharmaceutical guidelines, primarily the use of face masks in public appearance and places.” Unidentified men on Thursday swarmed the Edo State House of Assembly and stripped off the roof of the building. A video circulating online, from Channels Television shows the men acting under the guise of conducting renovations at the building and moving to make it uninhabitable for lawmakers. The Edo State Police Command had only hours earlier been reported to have taken over the state assembly complex. READ ALSO: Edo House Of Assembly Impeaches Deputy Speaker Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ayoola Ajala, led the operation to the assembly following what the police termed a threat to the complex. The action comes barely one day after the House impeached the deputy speaker Yekini Idiaye who had  previously given his endorsement to the APC candidate,  Osagie Ize-Iyamu in the upcoming governorship election in the state. READ ALSO: 14 Legislators, 18 LG Chairmen Join Obaseki In PDP Governor Godwin Obaseki is the PDP candidate in the September 19, 2020 governorship election. The video also shows the men removing the legislative mace on top of the complex though no reports have been made that renovations would be taking place at the complex.