The Computer Professionals Registration Council of Nigeria (CPN) has asked governments at all levels in the country to adopt 5G technology as it will boost economic growth. The recommendation was made in a communique jointly signed by Professor Charles Uwadia, president of the Council and Allwell Achumba, its registrar after the annual CPN Information Technology Professionals’ Assembly is a yearly gathering of Information Technology practitioners in Nigeria and Diaspora held in July 2020. READ ALSO: NCC Prepares Policy For 5G Deployment The theme for this years’ Assembly was “Adoption Of 5G in Nigeria: The Technological and Regulatory Challenges”. According to CPN, “The complete adoption of Information Technology as well as migration of Government operations from manual to digital will make the country to conform with the benchmark of Government operations in the 21st century. “The deployment of 5G in Nigeria is capable of fast tracking our economic growth and migrating us fully into a digital economy.” CPN said, “Deployment of 5G in Nigeria has numerous advantages which include faster internet connection, smoother user experience and huge deployment of Information Technology to drive growth and development of industries. READ ALSO: NCC Denies Any Imminent Switch To 5G In Nigeria “CPN is now recommending the adoption of 5G network to Government at all levels because Nigeria will derive huge socio-economic benefits from commercial deployment of the fifth generation (5G) networks. The new networks will come with great potentials that will boost the entire spectrum of Nigeria’s socio economic ecosystem.” Adoption of 5G network in Nigeria, the Ciuncil said, will bring about transformation in the country in the area of smart city, smart transportation, efficiency in medicine as well as a lot of automation in respect of our appliances and devices with respect to Internet of Things (IoT). READ ALSO: No Link Between COVID-19 And 5G Technology – NCC The country, CPN said, will also benefit immensely from the adoption of the network in terms of faster speed, high latency and high capacity that will transform consumer and business experiences because the difference between all other existing generations of technologies such as 2G, 3G and 4G lies in speed and data capacity. It called he Federal Government of Nigeria to declare Information Technology and Telecommunications as a critical national infrastructure to facilitate the success of the national broadband strategy.