The former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has reacted on the clash between Nigerian security forces and members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Enugu State on Sunday. There have been different reports on the number of casualties that resulted from the clash. A report claimed that two operatives of the Department of State Security (DSS) and 21 IPOB members were killed during the clash at a venue the pro-Biafra group was having a meeting in Emene area of Enugu State. Reacting to the development in a series of tweets on his verified Twitter handle, @realFFK, on Monday, Fani-Kayode decried and condemned what he said was the butchering of innocent and defenceless young men. Noting that their deaths was senseless and also counter-productive, he stated it would rather strengthen their cause, and harden their hearts, as well as winning them sympathy and new friends all over the world. “Repression fuels the struggle for liberation and freedom rather than stifle it. The more IPOB youths are killed the more their ranks will swell. I call on the Buhari administration to stop this open display of sociopathic madness and gratuitous violence against its own citizens and to be more tolerant, accommodating and restrained. “I call for a cessation of hostilities and state-sponsored violence and on the FG to lift the ban on IPOB and enter into negotiations with them before it is too late. “We must build bridges and not burn them. We must have the courage to talk to those who we may disagree with but who genuinely feel hurt and aggrieved and bring them back to the table. “We must find a more civilized and humane way to resolve our differences,” he tweeted. Nigeria has become the fourth country to report more than 1,000 deaths due to the coronavirus pandemic. While 27,831 deaths have been reported in Africa, South Africa accounts for 13,059 of those deaths, Egypt has recorded 5,262 deaths, Algeria has 1,435 and Nigeria has 1,002 deaths related to COVID-19. The Nigeria Centre for Disease control (NCDC) had on Sunday provided the latest figure on the pandemic in Nigeria. READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase It showed 322 new cases of the coronavirus disease in 18 states if the federation, with a total 52,227 confirmed
cases and 38,945 discharged patients. Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 130, followed by Bauchi with 36 new infections. READ ALSO: World COVID-19 Deaths Reach 808,986 And 997 In Nigeria The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 25 new infections while Edo State had 17, Bayelsa, Ogun and Oyo states had 14 each, while Anambra State had 13. There were 12 new cases in Kaduna State, 11 in Ondo State, 10 in Abia State, six in Osun State, and five each in Plateau and Kwara states. Kano State had four new infections, Ebonyi State had three, Sokoto State had two and Borno State had just one case.