Members of the Nigeria Union of Journalists in Akwa Ibom State decided that they won’t be part of a press conference planned for Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Minister of Aviation in the state. The former minister who has been widely criticised for calling a Daily Trust journalist, Charles Eyo, ‘stupid’ when he asked him a question during a press conference in Calabar last week, is currently in Akwa Ibom for a similar media parley. READ ALSO: Media Trust, NUJ Condemn Fani-Kayode’s Verbal Assault On Journalist However, the state NUJ in a letter signed by the Chairman, Comrade Amos Etuk, on Friday, directed its members to boycott the event as they would not have anything to do with Fani-kayode. “In line with the disposition of the national leadership of our great Union, the State Council has directed that no journalist should attend a media parley with Femi Fani-Kayode or any of his activity at any location in Akwa Ibom State. READ ALSO: Fani-Kayode Withdraws ‘Stupid’ Comments, Apologises For Assault On Journalist The NUJ is not part of the visit. Please, share this information in your various platforms,” Etuk said. Plateau State on Thursday recorded 85 new cases of COVID-19, accounting for almost a third  of 296 new cases reported by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). While the state recorded the highest number of new cases from any state, it would make the third straight day it is topping the list for most new cases. Two other states, Enugu with new cases 46 and Oyo with 31, reported more cases than Lagos, which in Nigeria, has been the epicenter of pandemic. It reported only 21 new cases. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Cases In Lagos Drop To 17, Lowest In Months Rivers State reported 20 cases, while the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 15. Kaduna State reported 13 cases, Bauchi State had 12, Delta and Ekiti states had 11 each and Akwa Ibom State had seven. In Ebonyi State, there six new cases, five in Kwara State, four each in Ogun and Osun states, three in Gombe State and two in Niger State. READ ALSO: Africa’ll Defeat COVID-19, Like Polio – Buhari Nigeria now has a total of 53,317 confirmed cases of COVID-19, with 40,726 discharged patients and 1,011 reported deaths.