Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, on Friday said Nigerians should hold the All Preogressive Congress (APC) and its governorship candidate in Edo State responsible should the election turn violent. Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the APC is challenging incumbent governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democracy (PDP) for the office of governor in the Edo State governorship election which is slated to hold on September will Wike, who is the Chairman of the PDP Edo State Governorship Campaign Council, in a series of tweets on Friday, said the PDP would resist every attempt to unlawfully remove Governor Obaseki from office or rig the September 19, 2020 Governorship Election. READ ALSO: Edo House Of Assembly Roof Stripped Off After Dramatic Impeachment He said Nigerians should hold APC and its candidates responsible should the Edo Election become violent. “Nigerians should hold the APC and its candidate responsible if there is a breakdown of law and order in Edo State. “Ours is a fragile democracy and the warlike approach of the APC to the Edo election poses a very serious threat to the survival of democracy in Nigeria. READ ALSO: Ganduje Who Was Caught Pocketing Dollars Should Be Isolated Not Me – Wike “PDP had raised the alarm that the APC is not ready for a free and fair contest and would use violence with the backing of federal might to rig and claim unmerited victory”, Wike said. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the International Community to prevail on the APC to stop the needless violence, play the game by the rules and allow the people of Edo State to freely elect their governor. President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday met with the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Ize-Iyamu was led to the presidential villa by the Chairman of APC Caretaker Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni. Also in the delegation were Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and Govrnor Abdulahi Ganduje of Kano. READ ALSO: Edo House Of Assembly Roof Stripped Off After Dramatic Impeachment The meeting is coming just as the political atmosphere in Edo is turning more volatile and violent and both APC and PDP laying claim to the leadership of the House of Assembly after the impeachment of the Speaker, Frank Okiye, on Thursday. The impeachment followed a takeover of the assembly complex by security operatives and the subsequent swearing in of 12 lawmakers who previously been unable to take the oath of office for over a year after they were elected. The 12 lawmakers along with five others believe to make up a faction loyal to former national chairman of the APC  elected Victor Edoror as speaker. READ ALSO: Edo House Of Assembly Impeaches Deputy Speaker The PDP had in a statement on Thursday accused Oshiomhole  of being behind the police takeover of  the Edo State House of Assembly. The National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, asked the Inspector-General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, to stop the attempt to take over the Assembly. He said, “The party posits that the invasion and illegal occupation of the state legislature by security agents allegedly deployed by sacked national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, is a direct coup against the democratic order of Edo State and a recipe for anarchy, chaos, and bloodletting. READ ALSO: ‘You Said Ize-Iyamu Was Bad Product’, Wike Reminds Oshiomhole “We urge the Inspector-General to act with dispatch to curb this nefarious situation, which has heightened tension in the state, and if not halted, may result in a bloody clash as the citizens are already charged to defend their symbol of democracy from a forceful takeover.” “The police hierarchy is urged to note that this provocative and lawless act by the APC is part of its plans to overheat the polity and create a security situation with the view to unleash violence on the people, derail the democratic order in the state and blame it on security agencies.“