President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed John Momoh, the chairman of Channels Television, as acting chairman of the Governing Council of the University of Lagos. The appointment followed the suspension of Dr. Wale Babalakin as chairman of the Governing Council by the president last week. READ ALSO: UNILAG Senate Elects Folasade Ogunsola As First Female VC The president also suspended the Vice Chancellor of the university,  Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, who had previously been sacked by the Babalakin led Council and set up a visitation panel to investigate the crisis in the institution. Momoh was also reportedly appointed last week in an August 21, 2020 letter addressed to him from the Ministry of Education. READ ALSO: Buhari Suspends UNILAG Pro-Chancellor, Wale Babalakin In the letter, the new chairman was asked to convene the Council and consider approving the new acting Vice Chancellor of the university elected by its senate. The letter asked Momoh to submit “a report on the decision of the council to the visitor through the honourable minister of education immediately thereafter.” The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 infections have risen to 5,028 after 34 new cases were reported on Monday. Only Lagos State, which reported 98 new infections has more confirmed cases with 17, 992. Oyo State has 3,050 confirmed cases. According to the Monday update from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the now has a total of 52,548 confirmed cases of COVID-19. 39,257 patients have so far been discharged, while the death toll stands at 1,004. Also, 321 new cases were reported across 21 states. Kaduna State reported 30 new cases, Nasarawa State had 25, Benue State had 21, Plateau State had 17, Rivers State had 15 and Adamawa and Ogun State reported 11 new cases each. There were nine new cases in Enugu State, eight in Edo State, seven each in Delta and Ekiti states, five in Gombe State, four in Ebonyi State, and three each in Bayelsa, Kano ans Ondo states. Cross River, Imo, Kebbi and Niger states all had two new cases each, Abia and Bauchi states each had a single case.