The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) has released Final International Timetable for the conduct of West African Senior Secondary Certificate Examination (WASSCE), 2020. This year’s examination which was postponed due to COVID-19 outbreak is now slated to begin on Monday, August 17, 2020 will end on Saturday, September 12, 2020. This was announced in a statement signed by Demianus GOjijeon, the council’s head of public affairs, on Tuesday. READ ALSO: WASSCE: If You Can Hold Elections, Students Can Take Exams – OpenFees Tells FG “The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) Nigeria wishes to inform its stakeholders-schools, parents and candidates-that the Final International Timetable for the conduct of WASSCE for School Candidates, 2020 has been released. “The examination which has been slated to begin on Monday, August 17, 2020 will end on Saturday, September 12, 2020. The Council hereby urges the candidates to abide by the rules and regulations guiding the conduct of the examination by shunning all acts of malpractice and obeying all Covid-19 protocols that have been put in place at the examination centres.” READ ALSO: Secondary Schools To Reopen August 4 The Council notes that several versions of the examination timetable have been in circulation and enjoins the general public to disregard them as they did not emanate from it. The federal government last week announced reopening of schools in the country for exit classes to take their exams. The federal government on Tuesday announced increment in fine for hate speech from N500,000 Naira to N5m. This was made known by the minister of culture and information, Lai Mohammed, at the unveiling of the new amendment to the sixth Edition of the Broadcasting Code held at Lagos on Tuesday. In a statement circulated via the ministry’s twitter handle on Tuesday, Mohammed said one of the reviewed code is: “The provision raising the fine for hate speech from 500,000 Naira to 5 million Naira.” READ ALSO: We’re Still On Course With Hate Speech Bill – Abdullahi Sabi Disclosing some other provisions of the reviewed broadcasting code, Mohammed said the law regulating web broadcasting would guard against negative foreign broadcast that can jeopardise the country’s security and national unity. “The law on registration of Web Broadcasting grants the country the opportunity to regulate negative foreign broadcasts that can harm us as a nation. Such harms could be in the area of security, protection for minors, protection of human dignity, economic fraud, privacy etc, he said. READ ALSO: Moghalu Condemns Senate Over Hate Speech Bill He added that TV stations would devote airtime for national emergencies, and that Sub-licensing and rights sharing in the reviewed code will help local operators to gain traction. “The provisions on responsibility of broadcast stations to devote airtime to national emergencies: This provision obviously mandates terrestrial and Pay TV channels to make their services available to Nigerians at time of national emergencies “Sub-licensing and Rights sharing create opportunities for local operators to also gain traction and raise revenue for their services”, Mohammed said.