The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday reported 453 new cases of COVID-19 infections and six more deaths in the country. Nigeria now has 46,140 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease with 33,044 patients discharged from hospital and 942 deaths recorded. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported the highest number of new cases with 75 infections, followed by Lagos, which had 71 new cases. Benue State had 53 new cases, Delta State reported 39, Borno State reported 30, Enugu State reported 25, Plateau State reported 24 and Osun State had 20 new cases. In Abia State, there were 19 new cases, 17 in Osun State, 16 in Kaduna State, 13 each in Kano and Ebonyi states, nine in Ogun State, seven in Kwara State and six in Ondo State. Gombe State reported three new cases, Ekiti State had two, and Akwa Ibom and Rivers states  had one each. Governor Nasiru el-Rufai of Kaduna State has said he has no ambitions to contest for president in 2023, insisting he will only back a candidate from the south of Nigeria. El-Rufai, who spoke to BBC Hausa on Saturday said he would not support a northern candidate to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in office. He said, “In Nigerian politics, there is a system of rotation, in which everyone agrees that if the north rules for eight years, the south will rule for eight years. READ ALSO: 2023: Mamman Daura Spoke For Himself, Not Buhari – Presidency “That is why I came out and said that after President Buhari has been in office for eight years, no northerner should run for office. Let the Southerners also have eight years.” The governor, who has long been rumoured to be eyeing the presidency dismissed any suggestion he planned to contest in 2023 and stands by the political understanding of rotating the presidency between the north and the south. READ ALSO: Mamman Daura Is Not The Problem He said, “If you look at how I am, I don’t take anyone to work with me for the zone he came from. The eligibility I look at is if who is entrusted to the public will hold it properly. “It has been said that I have loved the presidency since I was a minister in the FCT. This is nonsense. I do not want the Nigerian presidency. God gives power, whether you like it or not, if He wants it, He will give it to you, but I have never sought the presidency of Nigeria, no one can say I have ever sought it.”