The Bayelsa Governorship Election Tribunal sitting in Abuja has nullified the election Governor Duoye Diri of Bayelsa State. The judges ruling on Monday based their decision on the exclusion of King George, the candidate of ADP, in the November 16, 2019 governorship election. The election had initially been won by David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress but he disqualified by the Supreme Court in February just hours before his inauguration, paving the way for Diri of the People’s Democratic Party to claim victory. READ ALSO: INEC Declares PDP’s Duoye Diri Winner Of Bayelsa Election The tribunal, in the ruling ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct fresh elections within 90 days. Two days earlier, the election tribunal dismissed three petitions challenging the election if the Bayelsa governor. READ ALSO: Supreme Court Dismisses APC’s Application For Bayelsa Judgment Review A three man panel sitting in Abuja in a unanimous decision led by Justice S.M. Owodunni dismissed the petition of the Alliance for Democracy for lacking merit. The petitioner, the judges said  had failed to prove the allegations of the forged declaration of age and the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) discharged certificate levelled against the Deputy Governor, Senator Lawrence. READ ALSO: Bayelsa: Supreme Court Fines APC Lawyers N60m Another dismissed petition was by United Peoples Congress, which sought the annulment of Diri’s election. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Sunday reported 298 new cases of COVID-19 infections in the country and one more death. There are now 49,068 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease, with 36,497 patients discharged and 975 deaths recorded. READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase Plateau State reported the highest number of new cases with 108, followed by Kaduna State, with 49 cases. Lagos State was third with 47 new infections. Ogun State reported 18, Osun State had 17, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 15, Ondo State had 14 and Edo State had eight new cases. READ ALSO: Nigeria Discharges 1,689 COVID-19 Patients In Oyo State, there were six new infections, four each in Akwa Ibom and Cross River states, three in Borno State, two in Ekiti State and one each in Bauchi, Kano and River states.