President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday swore-in 12 new Permanent Secretaries just before the weekly vFederal Executive Council meeting at the Council chambers. The newly appointed Permanent Secretaries are Belgore Shuaib Mohammad Lomido, Kwara; Akinlade Oluwatoyin, Kogi; Ekpa Anthonia Akpabio, Cross River; Alkali Bashir Nura, Kano; Ardo Babayo Kumo, Gombe and Anyanwutaku Adaora lfeoma, Anambra. Others are Udoh Moniloja Omokunmi, Oyo; Hussaini Babangida, Jigawa; Mohammed Aliyu Ganda, Sokoto; Mahmuda Mamman, Yobe; Meribole Emmanuel Chukwuemeka, Abia and Tarfa Yerima Peter Adamawa. The President also swore in commissioners for Federal Civil Service Commission, Idahagbon Henry and Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission, Usman Hassan. While the Federal Executive Council meeting that followed the swearing in ceremony, some ministers and top aides of the president were physically present at the Council Chamber for the virtual. It was the 13th virtual meeting of the executive council since social distancing and other protocols were put in place to contain the spread of the oronavirus pandemic. Former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has apologised to his friends in the media for attacking a Daily Trust reporter during a press conference in Cross River on Tuesday. Fani-Kayode was widely condemned for his reaction to a question on who was funding his tour of several states. The Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ)  issued a statement of condemnation. Fani-Kayode said in a statement on Wednesday that, “I met with my advisors till late last night and I wish to say the following. I hereby withdraw the word “stupid” which I used in my encounter with a journalist in Calabar. “I have many friends in the media who I offended by losing my cool and using such words. I hereby express my regrets for doing so.” READ ALSO: Media Trust, NUJ Condemn Fani-Kayode’s Verbal Assault On Journalist He said, “I do however  wish to state categorically that no threat of physical harm was ever made to the journalist in question and neither did I send anyone to threaten him. Anyone that says otherwise is lying and I challenge them to bring the proof. “I would never seek to physically harm a journalist. For the last 30 years I have defended and worked with journalists and fought for the right of freedom of expression.” He said added “I am  also very close to many in that profession. I would be the last to seek to disparage those that are honorable and noble within its ranks. “I hope that this will assuage the pain and anger of anyone that was hurt or offended by this ugly episode. I have now put this matter behind me and moved on. Now my tour of the South continues. Moving to yet another state today!”