Unidentified men on Thursday swarmed the Edo State House of Assembly and stripped off the roof of the building. A video circulating online, from Channels Television shows the men acting under the guise of conducting renovations at the building and moving to make it uninhabitable for lawmakers. The Edo State Police Command had only hours earlier been reported to have taken over the state assembly complex. READ ALSO: Edo House Of Assembly Impeaches Deputy Speaker Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ayoola Ajala, led the operation to the assembly following what the police termed a threat to the complex. The action comes barely one day after the House impeached the deputy speaker Yekini Idiaye who had  previously given his endorsement to the APC candidate,  Osagie Ize-Iyamu in the upcoming governorship election in the state. READ ALSO: 14 Legislators, 18 LG Chairmen Join Obaseki In PDP Governor Godwin Obaseki is the PDP candidate in the September 19, 2020 governorship election. The video also shows the men removing the legislative mace on top of the complex though no reports have been made that renovations would be taking place at the complex. Nigerian Army on Thursday said they had deactivated 25 illegal refineries in the south south region, in its effort to curb crude oil theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal oil bunkering in the country. This was disclosed in a statement published on it website and circulated via its official twitter handle on Thursday. Nigerian Army said the 25 illegal refineries that were deactivated were operating in three South South States of Rivers, Cross River and Akwa Ibom. “Troops of Operation DELTA SAFE have intensified the fight against crude oil theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal oil bunkering in the region with attendant successes. “Within the period under review, Operation DELTA SAFE discovered and deactivated 25 illegal refining sites in Rivers, Cross Rivers and Akwa Ibom States. “Also, a total of 342, 000, 00 litres of product suspected to be illegally refined AGO were impounded. Subsidiary operations CALM WATERS II and SWIFT RESPONSE have continued to record remarkable successes”, the statement read. It added that the Nigerian Navy Ship DELTA led a peace and reconciliation meeting with the stakeholders of Gbaramatu Kingdom of Warri South LGA of Delta State. “The peace meeting was held following recent threats to disrupt oil and gas infrastructure by the people of Gbaramatu Kingdom”, statement read.