Chief Edwin Clark has cautioned the Federal Government against ending the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) that was introduced to promote peace in the Niger Delta region and to rehabilate repentant militants. Clark was speaking during a virtual press conference in response to what he believes to be information that a panel set up by the federal government to look into the activities of the amnesty programme had recommended its scrapping with effect from December. READ ALSO: FG Recovers N3.7bn From NDDC Contractors He said, “When I got this information yesterday, my temper was high because how can a region, which contributes so much to the economic growth, and by extension, political and social growth of the country, be treated with so much disdain and spite?” Clark said, “Except they have prepared another ‘Operation Crocodile Smile, government needs to be very cautious. Wake not a sleeping lion. This is not a threat; it is a clarion call for peace.” The Ijaw leader questioned why the members of the investigative panel didn’t visit the Niger Delta region to see things for themselves and make informed judgments. He said, “Did Ambassador Lawal and his team ever travel to the Niger Delta region to find out if the objective of setting up the programme such as infrastructural development, sand filling; building low- cost houses, building roads, which are to be carried out by the PAP as its second phase activities contained in the proclamation, been achieved? As someone outside of the region does he really understand or feel the sufferings of the people of the region? READ ALSO: Industrial Fishing Will Multiply Jobs In Niger Delta – Patrick Osoba “Also, what measures have been put in place by the federal government to fulfill its promises to the region such as setting up modular refineries, the relocation of the operational headquarters of the International Oil Companies (IOCs) and the Ogoni cleanup as contained in the 16-point Agenda of the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), which we presented to Mr. President at the Presidential Villa on 1st November, 2017? Our living condition in the region has worsened. The PAP should be allowed to continue for some more time.” The Federal Road Safety Corps has sent out a reminder to motorists of the increased high risk of road crashes as there will be increased mobility as the Ember months approach. The Zone 4 Commander of FRSC in charge of Plateau, Benue and Nasarawa States, Dr. Kayode Olagunju, gave the  warning to all motorists, asking they should be safety conscious as we enter the last quarter of the year known as ember months. Olagunju warned motorist to be conscious of the fact that there will be increased mobility during the period  which could also result to high incidence of road traffic crashes (RTC). READ ALSO: How FRSC Officials Rescued Pregnant Driver In Labour In a statement issued by DRC Terry Hoomlong, the Zonal Commanding Officer said the call comes on the heels of four mobile court sittings conducted in Plateau, Benue and Nasarawa States convicting 131 traffic offenders for varying violations. He said in the statement that, “A mobile court presided by Hon. Isa Zalla sitting in Pankshin on 23rd July, 2020 convicted 30 offenders arraigned. In Benue, Hon IF Ajim sitting in Makurdi on 30th July and 14th August, 2020 convicted 71 traffic offenders out of 73 arraigned, while in Nasarawa Hon. Gwahimba Vincent convicted 30 out of 35 offenders arraigned  on 14th August, 2020. “The convicted drivers were jailed for two months but were however given the option of fines ranging between N 2,000 and N 10,000 in line with the FRSC Establishment act, 2007 and the National Tratfic Rgulations, 2012. The most prevalent offences were overloading/ nonsocial rug lat I in, seat belt,tyre violations and mechanicaly defective vehicles.” READ ALSO: FRSC Boss Seeks For Safer Roads During Ramadan He gave assurances that “the Command will continue the prosecution of erring drivers especially those with critical offences such as overloading, dangerous driving, speed limit violations, tyre violations, route violations, use of phone while driving, driving under influence, mechanically deficient vehicle and failure to fix speed limiting devices.” The Zone, he said, was putting in place measures to address traffic situations in the coming ember month. Road Safety, he said  is a collective responsibility therefore, the motoring public must also take responsibility to ensure they obey traffic rules and be disciplined for a safe and successful ember month.