The Federal Government has finally  received the 200 ventilators promised Nigeria  by United States President Donald Trump several months ago to aid in the fight against COVID-19. The US President made the promise during a phone call with Prisident Muhammadu Buhari back in April. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire wbho received the ventilators from USAID on Tuesday said they are a critical component of the response strategy to save the lives of persons who have been severely impacted by this viral infection. He said, “They will certainly be of great benefit to the people of Nigeria and I wish to convey the appreciation of His Excellency Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and of the government of Nigeria, to President Donald Trump and the United States Government for the generous consideration and friendly gesture.” READ ALSO: COVID-19: Trump Calls Buhari, Promises Him Ventilators The minister said, “We particularly appreciate that this gift comes against the backdrop that the United States is also fighting its own fierce battle against the COVID-19 plague. We wish them the very best in this challenge. “I wish to also commend the United States Agency for International Development, the USCDC and the US Ambassador to Nigeria – Her Excellency Mary Beth Leonard, for their interest and engagement in Nigeria, even beyond the advent of COVID-19. Her Excellency has demonstrated personal concern by paying a solidarity visit to the Federal Ministry of Health.” Ehanire said, “I conclude by requesting the United States Government to lend its full weight to global efforts to find efficacious therapeutics and vaccines to neutralize the threat of COVID-19 to the global community and to guarantee fair allocation to all countries and people. READ ALSO: Nigerian Government Begs Elon Musk For Ventilators On Twitter “The speed and ease with which COVID-19 has spread across the globe clearly shows that it is a threat to mankind. Without the full collaboration of all nations, the threat of COVID-19 to any one part of the world is a threat to all.” The Independent National Electoral Commission has said it will appeal at the Supreme Court, a Court of Appeal judgement on Monday that voided its deregistration of 22 political parties. The Court of Appeal had ruled that INEC needed to prove that it had complied with the procedure outlined under the law in deregistering political parties. READ ALSO: Court Stops INEC From Deregistering 31 Political Parties Festus Okoye, INEC commissioner for information, said in a statement it was necessary to seek clarification from the Supreme Court because there were two conflicting judgements coming out of the Court of Appeal. He said, “The Commission is faced with two conflicting judgements from the Court of Appeal; one affirming the powers of the Commission to deregister political parties and the other setting aside the deregistration of ACD & 22 others.” Okoye said, “Faced with two conflicting judgements from the same Court, the Commission is not in a position to pick and choose which one of them to obey. READ ALSO: INEC Introduces Election Result Viewing Portal “Consequently, the Commission will approach the Supreme Court for a final resolution of the issues raised in the two conflicting judgements.”