The number of deaths from COVID-19 across the world has reached 808,986 with the number of confirmed cases standing at 23,400,929 according to data on worldometer.info. 27,987 people have died of the pandemic in Africa with 1,183,381 confirmed infections. In Nigeria, the number of deaths is three short of 1,000 at 997 as announced by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday. READ ALSO: NCDC Reports 437 New Cases Of COVID-19 There are now 51,905 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country, while 38,767 patients have discharged. One day after reporting only 33 infections, its lowest number of new cases of COVID-19, Lagos on Saturday reported 404 new cases. Overall, the NCDC  reported 601 new cases of the coronavirus disease in 20 states across the country. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 37 new cases, Oyo State reported 19 and Ondo State recorded 14. Abia, Enugu and Kaduna states has 13 each, while Edo and Kano states had 12 each. WATCH ALSO: The Bright Side of COVID-19 – Improved Customer Service in Nigeria In Kwara State there were 11 new infections, 10 in Ebonyi State, seven in Nasarawa State, six in Ogun State and five each in Osun, Delta and Niger states. Plateau and Bayelsa states has four each, Katsina State had three, and Ekiti and Imo states reported two each. Following the presentation of a Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ) research report on the corruption and mismanagement of funds, going into trillions of naira, by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), blame for the rot in the commission has been placed squarely on the presidency. Dayo Olaide, deputy director at MacArthur Foundation, said the presidency and governors of the Niger Delta region were culpable in the rot and failure of the NDDC for failing to hold it accountable and ensuring transparency in its operations as the Act setting up the commission dictates. Olaide spoke on Friday during the presentation of the research report investigating corruption in the NDDC by the PTCIJ in a virtual conference. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD The Mac Arthur Foundation funds and partners with the PTCIJ. Olaide pointed to the poor supervision and monitoring from the presidency particularly in ensuring regular audits, which should be submitted to both the president and National Assembly, and also ensure proper functioning of the board and the directorates of the commission. Olaide said, “The office of the auditor general has a responsibility to audit the NDDC because it receives allocation every year. “So really, we are at a point where we need to ask questions that go beyond the current situation, but goes back to the institutional arrangement that has been put in place to ensure transparency, to ensure accountability and to ensure that development actually happens in the Niger Delta.” He said, “One of the first things that needs to happen is that the presidency must see through the forensic audit that is ongoing. The forensic audit must be implemented. Anyone indicted must be prosecuted. READ ALSO: NDDC Probe: Drama As MD Slumps During Questioning “Assets of those that have been indicted must be seized as quickly as possible. They must traced, and they must seized. Contractors, whether they are members of the National Assembly, whether they are board members must be conclusively prosecuted.” Tobi Oluwatola, who presented the report said that human development in the Niger Delta had gone in the 20 years since the establishment of the NDDC. According to the report, some N2.16 trn in funds has been poured into the NDDC. Findings of the research include an estimated N1.23trn expended on projects that were either not implemented, abandoned or were uncompleted. The N1.23trn were spent on some 5,300 projects. READ ALSO: ‘I slapped Akpabio Because He Was Sexually Harassing Me,’ Ex NDDC MD, Nunieh Says And of the 9,300 NDDC claimed to have executed, the investigative was able to track 172 of them. Of those 172 projects, only 43 per cent were completed. Some of the problems the team found are that contracts are awarded to unqualified companies, conflict of interest in award of contracts, completed projects are re-awarded, false reporting on project status and failure to deliver on contracts.