The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on Monday reported 288 new cases of COVID-19 infections, the lowest since June 7, 2020 when 260 new cases were reported. The NCDC also reported eight new deaths from COVID-19 complications taking the total death toll in the country to 896. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records Lowest New Cases Of COVID-19 In Months There are 44,129 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease in the country, 22,570 of them still active. 20,663 pstients have been discharged. According to NCDC, 287,532 samples have so far been tested across the country for the disease. In the Monday update, Lagos reported the highest number of new cases with 88, followed by Kwara, which had 33 cases. Osun reported the third highest with 27. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s New COVID-19 Daily Cases Drop The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Enugu State had 25 cases each, while Abia State had 20. In Kaduna State, there were 17 cases, 13 each in Plateau and Rivers states, 10 in Delta State, eight in Gombe State, four in Ogun State, three in Oyo State and one each in Katsina and Bauchi states. The management of Air Peace on Monday announced that it was terminating the appointment of some of its pilots. Announcing this in a statement on Monday, Air Peace said the decision to terminate the appointment of some of its pilots was due to the economic impact of COVID-19 on the industry. “The Management of Air Peace wishes to state that it has taken a very painful but rightful decision, in the circumstances the airline has found itself as a result of the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on its operations and financial health, to terminate the employment of some of its pilots. “This decision was taken for the greater good of the company and its almost 3000 workforce, the affected pilots inclusive. “The airline cannot afford to toe the path of being unable to continue to fulfill its financial obligations to its staff, external vendors, aviation agencies, maintenance organisations, insurance companies, banks and other creditors hence the decision to restructure its entire operations with a view to surviving the times”, the statement read. READ ALSO: Arik Air Flies First Post-Lockdown Flight The airline said though it had never owed its workers, decision to terminate some appointment was inevitable as pay cuts alone could keep the company afloat in the face of prevailing economic circumstances. “The pandemic has hit every airline worldwide so badly that it has become very impossible for airlines to remain afloat without carrying out internal restructuring of their costs. “Anything short of what we have done may lead to the collapse of an airline as could be seen in some places worldwide during this period. “Therefore, we decided to review the salaries being paid to all staff. The new salaries reflect a 0%-40% cut of the former salary depending on the salary grades of every staff. “Even after the cuts, it was obvious that for us to be able to sustain our operations and survive the times, some jobs must inevitably have to go”, the statement said.