The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, has been given awards for the role his Commission is playing in keeping Nigerians and businesses connected since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Two of the awards, ‘Human Rights Telecoms Defender’ for the EVC and ‘Human Rights Guard’ for the Commission, as a corporate entity, were presented by Wheel of Hope Human Rights Foundation (WHHRF), a frontline Nigerian Non-Governmental Organisation. The third award, ‘Icon of a Greater Nigeria’ was presented to the EVC by the Youth Coalition Against Corruption (YOCAC), a coalition of Nigerian youths from all walks of life. Director, Public Affairs, NCC, Dr. Ikeckukwu Adinde, who received the awards on behalf of the EVC, in a statement on Thursday expressed appreciation to the organisations for their gestures. He said the three awards would serve as an encouragement to the Commission to continue to strengthen effective, fair and transparent regulation of the telecommunications industry. Adinde said, “On behalf of the EVC and Chief Executive of NCC, we thank you for these recognitions. These latest awards will add to the long list of laurels in the NCC’s kitty. There are many initiatives by the Commission, to ensure increased connectivity, improved quality of service and consumer rights protection,” Adinde said while restating the NCC’s commitment to consumer-centric initiatives that promote digital inclusion and advance the digital economy vision of the government.” Chairman, WHHRF, Jide Abdulazeez, said the presentation of the two awards by the Foundation was in recognition of “the leading role the Commission has been playing in sustaining access to telecoms services throughout the period of the lockdown, following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic.” He said the role of NCC in making the 112 Emergency Number available to Nigerians to report COVID-19-related cases and other emergencies; as well as its efforts in consistently protecting the rights and privileges of telecoms consumers, through effective resolutions of service-related complains, were part of the reasons for finding the Commission worthy of the awards. In the same vein, the National Coordinator, YOCAC, Dahiru Umaru, said, “the Icon of Greater Nigeria Award conferred on the EVC is in recognition of his leadership qualities and achievements which have engendered quality regulatory supervision of the telecoms industry by ensuring that telecom consumers are not unduly shortchanged, especially during the critical stage of the COVID-19 pandemic.” According to him, the Commission has been contributing immensely to the growth of the Nigerian economy by ensuring robust telecom infrastructure, making it possible for Nigerians to leverage social media and other digital platforms to ventilate their views against corrupt practices in order to ensure good governance in the country. Members of the Nigeria Union of Journalists in Akwa Ibom State decided that they won’t be part of a press conference planned for Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Minister of Aviation in the state. The former minister who has been widely criticised for calling a Daily Trust journalist, Charles Eyo, ‘stupid’ when he asked him a question during a press conference in Calabar last week, is currently in Akwa Ibom for a similar media parley. READ ALSO: Media Trust, NUJ Condemn Fani-Kayode’s Verbal Assault On Journalist However, the state NUJ in a letter signed by the Chairman, Comrade Amos Etuk, on Friday, directed its members to boycott the event as they would not have anything to do with Fani-kayode. “In line with the disposition of the national leadership of our great Union, the State Council has directed that no journalist should attend a media parley with Femi Fani-Kayode or any of his activity at any location in Akwa Ibom State. READ ALSO: Fani-Kayode Withdraws ‘Stupid’ Comments, Apologises For Assault On Journalist The NUJ is not part of the visit. Please, share this information in your various platforms,” Etuk said.