The federal government on Tuesday announced increment in fine for hate speech from N500,000 Naira to N5m. This was made known by the minister of culture and information, Lai Mohammed, at the unveiling of the new amendment to the sixth Edition of the Broadcasting Code held at Lagos on Tuesday. In a statement circulated via the ministry’s twitter handle on Tuesday, Mohammed said one of the reviewed code is: “The provision raising the fine for hate speech from 500,000 Naira to 5 million Naira.” READ ALSO: We’re Still On Course With Hate Speech Bill – Abdullahi Sabi Disclosing some other provisions of the reviewed broadcasting code, Mohammed said the law regulating web broadcasting would guard against negative foreign broadcast that can jeopardise the country’s security and national unity. “The law on registration of Web Broadcasting grants the country the opportunity to regulate negative foreign broadcasts that can harm us as a nation. Such harms could be in the area of security, protection for minors, protection of human dignity, economic fraud, privacy etc, he said. READ ALSO: Moghalu Condemns Senate Over Hate Speech Bill He added that TV stations would devote airtime for national emergencies, and that Sub-licensing and rights sharing in the reviewed code will help local operators to gain traction. “The provisions on responsibility of broadcast stations to devote airtime to national emergencies: This provision obviously mandates terrestrial and Pay TV channels to make their services available to Nigerians at time of national emergencies “Sub-licensing and Rights sharing create opportunities for local operators to also gain traction and raise revenue for their services”, Mohammed said. Rivers State government has announced that it is set to reopen markets in the state. The outbreak of COVID-19 had forced the state government to shut markets to prevent the spread its in the state. However, the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, in a tweet on Tuesday said markets in the state were set to reopen. Governor Wike called on markets unions, traders and customers to adhere strictly to COVID-19 safety protocol to curtail the spread of the virus. READ ALSO: Don’t Worry About Increasing Cases Of COVID-19 In Rivers – Wike He added that the use of face mask use was compulsory for both traders and their customers in he market environment. “We are set to open our markets in Rivers State. For the safety of Rivers people we would need the cooperation of market unions, traders and customers to adhere to Covid-19 safety protocols and use face masks while in the market”, he said. READ ALSO: Coronavirus Spreads To Rivers, Now In 9 States According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Rivers State has recorded 1,842 cases, discharged 1,481 patients and recorded 53 deaths so far as a result of COVID-19.