The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, on Wednesday received a Distinguished Award from the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON). The Award was presented to the EVC in his office in Abuja by ATCON President, Olusola Teniola, and the association’s Executive Secretary, Ajibola Olude. Teniola said the award was in appreciation of the laudable contribution of the EVC of NCC towards the successful hosting of ATCON’s virtual national dialogue held for the industry on August 6, 2020. He said further explained that ATCON was recognising and appreciating the EVC “for being a panel discussant on ‘Meeting the Interests of the Government, Consumers, Telecoms and ICT Companies in the Era of COVID-19 and Post COVID-19 Pandemic Cum Digital Era’ dated August 2020.” The EVC appreciated ATCON for the gesture and for the critical role the association is playing in the overall development of the telecoms and ICT industry as a whole. A Nigerian oil merchant and Chief Executive Officer of Rahamaniyya Oil and Gas Limited, Abdulrahman Bashir, has been reportedly sentenced to 10 months imprisonment in the United Kingdom. The report first surfaced on Premium Times, an online newspaper. Justice Butcher of England and Wales High Court passed the 10-month sentence Bashir for not complying with at least two court orders relating to an arbitration settlement with Sahara Energy Resources Ltd. Both Rahamaniyya and Sahara Energy are Nigerian registered companies with the bulk of their operations in Nigeria. The two companies in July 2018 signed contract that had Collateral Management Agreement (CMA) containing a London arbitration clause in it. The court orders that were reportedly breached required Rahamaniyya Oil and Gas Ltd to comply with requests for the release of 6,400.69 metric tonnes gas oil to Sahara Energy Resource Ltd or its agent from Rahamaniyya Oil and Gas Ltd, Jetty 6.436181, Ibafon, Kirikiri Waterfront, of Aero Maritime Street, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria (“the Terminal”). According to the court documents obtained, Bashir breached those orders by failing to allow or procure Rahamaniyya Oil and Gas Ltd or its servants or agents to allow the release of the said oil from the Terminal. The court however, made a binding indication that the sentence could be reduced to six months if Bashir complies with the relevant order, which had previously been breached.