The United Kingdom has officially entered into its largest recession on record, according to the Office of National Statistics (ONS), on Wednesday. This is also said to be the country’s first recession in 11 years after it suffered the deepest economic slump in the whole of Europe. The ONS figures showed that the COVID-19 Pandemic had caused the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to have dipped by 20.4 per cent between April and June 2020. The BBC reported that household spending plunged during this period as shops were ordered to close, while factory and construction output also fell. READ ALSO: British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson In Intensive Care As COVID-19 Symptoms Worsen The deputy national statistician at the ONS, Jonathan Athow stated, “The recession brought on by the coronavirus pandemic has led to the biggest fall in quarterly GDP on record.” “The economy began to bounce back in June, with shops reopening, factories beginning to ramp up production and house-building continuing to recover. “Despite this, GDP in June still remains a sixth below its level in February, before the virus struck. “Overall, productivity saw its largest-ever fall in the second quarter. Hospitality was worst hit, with productivity in that industry falling by three-quarters in recent months.” The Nigerian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, has tested negative to COVID-19 after being in isolation for more than three weeks. The minister had on July 19, disclosed that his fourth COVID-19 test had come back positive, after having three previous negative results. READ ALSO: Foreign Affairs Minister, Onyeama Tests Positive For COVID-19 He also stated that he was proceeding to isolation in a medical facility. However, on Wednesday the minister announced through his verified twitter page that he had been declared COVID-19 free. “By the very special grace of God, my latest COVID-19 test result came back negative after three weeks isolation,” he wrote. READ ALSO: President Buhari Wishes Geoffrey Onyeama Speedy Recovery Onyeama went on to express his gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari and others for their support while he battled the virus. He stated, “I am eternally grateful to my family, the C-in-C and VP, the medical team, relations, friends, colleagues, religious leaders and numerous well-wishers, who through their care, prayers, fasting, messages of support and encouragement never let me walk alone.”