The Federal Road Safety Corps has sent out a reminder to motorists of the increased high risk of road crashes as there will be increased mobility as the Ember months approach. The Zone 4 Commander of FRSC in charge of Plateau, Benue and Nasarawa States, Dr. Kayode Olagunju, gave the  warning to all motorists, asking they should be safety conscious as we enter the last quarter of the year known as ember months. Olagunju warned motorist to be conscious of the fact that there will be increased mobility during the period  which could also result to high incidence of road traffic crashes (RTC). READ ALSO: How FRSC Officials Rescued Pregnant Driver In Labour In a statement issued by DRC Terry Hoomlong, the Zonal Commanding Officer said the call comes on the heels of four mobile court sittings conducted in Plateau, Benue and Nasarawa States convicting 131 traffic offenders for varying violations. He said in the statement that, “A mobile court presided by Hon. Isa Zalla sitting in Pankshin on 23rd July, 2020 convicted 30 offenders arraigned. In Benue, Hon IF Ajim sitting in Makurdi on 30th July and 14th August, 2020 convicted 71 traffic offenders out of 73 arraigned, while in Nasarawa Hon. Gwahimba Vincent convicted 30 out of 35 offenders arraigned  on 14th August, 2020. “The convicted drivers were jailed for two months but were however given the option of fines ranging between N 2,000 and N 10,000 in line with the FRSC Establishment act, 2007 and the National Tratfic Rgulations, 2012. The most prevalent offences were overloading/ nonsocial rug lat I in, seat belt,tyre violations and mechanicaly defective vehicles.” READ ALSO: FRSC Boss Seeks For Safer Roads During Ramadan He gave assurances that “the Command will continue the prosecution of erring drivers especially those with critical offences such as overloading, dangerous driving, speed limit violations, tyre violations, route violations, use of phone while driving, driving under influence, mechanically deficient vehicle and failure to fix speed limiting devices.” The Zone, he said, was putting in place measures to address traffic situations in the coming ember month. Road Safety, he said  is a collective responsibility therefore, the motoring public must also take responsibility to ensure they obey traffic rules and be disciplined for a safe and successful ember month. The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 infections in Nigeria are now close to 50,000 with the number of deaths approaching the 1,000 mark. After days of reporting an average of 300 cases a day, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Monday reported 417 new cases of COVID-19 in the country. READ ALSO: Nigeria Discharges 1,689 COVID-19 Patients This takes the total confirmed cases to  49,485, while 36,834 patients have been discharged and 977 deaths recorded. With 207 cases, Lagos State accounted for close to half of 417 new infections in the country. The state had also for several days witnessed a drop in new infections. WATCH ALSO: The Bright Side of COVID-19 – Improved Customer Service in Nigeria Kaduna State had the second highest number of new cases with 44, followed by Ondo State, which had 38 new cases. In Abia State, there were 28 new cases, 21 in Anambra State, 20 in Plateau State, 13 in Bauchi State, nine each in Oyo and Ebonyi states, and seven each in Delta and Edo states. READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase There were six new cases in Enugu State three in Niger State, two in Gombe State and one each in Ogun, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Kano State.