The senate of the University of Lagos on Monday elected Folasade Ogunsola as acting Vice Chancellor. She is the first woman to ever hold the office. Ogunsola was, before her election as the university’s acting Vice Chancellor, was the Deputy Vice Chancellor for Development Services of the institution. READ ALSO: Buhari Suspends UNILAG Pro-Chancellor, Wale Babalakin Her election followed a directive from President Muhammadu Buhari to the senate of Unilag to appoint a VC in acting capacity after he suspended both the Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Wale Babalakin and the Vice Chancellor, Oluwatoyin Ogundipe. READ ALSO: Governing Council Sacks UNILAG VC, Professor Ogundipe Babalakin, who is the chairman of the Governing Council of the university led it to sack Ogundipe in controversial circumstances and appointed Theophilus Soyombo in acting capacity. The new acting VC was elected in a senate vote where she scored 135 votes to defeat Ben Ogbojafor, who garnered only 31 votes. READ ALSO: UNILAG Governing Council Appoints Prof. Soyombo Acting Vice Chancellor Ogunsola was previously the provost of UNILAG College of Medicine and is the principal investigator at AIDS Prevention Initiative in Nigeria (APIN) at UNILAG. The former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has reacted on the clash between Nigerian security forces and members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Enugu State on Sunday. There have been different reports on the number of casualties that resulted from the clash. A report claimed that two operatives of the Department of State Security (DSS) and 21 IPOB members were killed during the clash at a venue the pro-Biafra group was having a meeting in Emene area of Enugu State. Reacting to the development in a series of tweets on his verified Twitter handle, @realFFK, on Monday, Fani-Kayode decried and condemned what he said was the butchering of innocent and defenceless young men. Noting that their deaths was senseless and also counter-productive, he stated it would rather strengthen their cause, and harden their hearts, as well as winning them sympathy and new friends all over the world. “Repression fuels the struggle for liberation and freedom rather than stifle it. The more IPOB youths are killed the more their ranks will swell. I call on the Buhari administration to stop this open display of sociopathic madness and gratuitous violence against its own citizens and to be more tolerant, accommodating and restrained. “I call for a cessation of hostilities and state-sponsored violence and on the FG to lift the ban on IPOB and enter into negotiations with them before it is too late. “We must build bridges and not burn them. We must have the courage to talk to those who we may disagree with but who genuinely feel hurt and aggrieved and bring them back to the table. “We must find a more civilized and humane way to resolve our differences,” he tweeted.