Rivers State government has announced that it is set to reopen markets in the state. The outbreak of COVID-19 had forced the state government to shut markets to prevent the spread its in the state. However, the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, in a tweet on Tuesday said markets in the state were set to reopen. Governor Wike called on markets unions, traders and customers to adhere strictly to COVID-19 safety protocol to curtail the spread of the virus. READ ALSO: Don’t Worry About Increasing Cases Of COVID-19 In Rivers – Wike He added that the use of face mask use was compulsory for both traders and their customers in he market environment. “We are set to open our markets in Rivers State. For the safety of Rivers people we would need the cooperation of market unions, traders and customers to adhere to Covid-19 safety protocols and use face masks while in the market”, he said. READ ALSO: Coronavirus Spreads To Rivers, Now In 9 States According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Rivers State has recorded 1,842 cases, discharged 1,481 patients and recorded 53 deaths so far as a result of COVID-19. President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the payment of fees and stipends of stranded students who are on scholarships of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The NDDC in a statement by the director of of Corporate Affairs, Charles Odili said the president gave the order  to  the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. READ ALSO: Nigerian Students Now Beggars In UK, Abike Dabiri Calls Out NDDC Over Unpaid Fees Students, he said, would be paid by the end of the week adding that the delay was due to the sudden death of Chief Ibanga Etang, the Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration, EDFA, of the Commission earlier in May. He said, “Under the Commission’s finance protocol, only the Executive Director (Finance) and the Executive Director (Projects) can sign for the release of funds from the Commission’s domiciliary accounts with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). READ ALSO: NDDC Corruption Saga: Senator Adeyemi Calls For Adoption Of Sharia, Mosaic Laws “With the death of Chief Etang, the remittance has to await the appointment of a new EDFA. Senator Akpabio, the Honourable Minister, said President Buhari who has been briefed on the protest by students at the Nigerian High Commission in London, has ordered that all stops be pulled to pay the students by the end of this week. We expect a new EDFA to be appointed this week. As soon as that is done, they would all be paid.”