The commissioner of health in Lagos, Professor Akin Abayomi, has recovered from COVID-19 after testing negative over the weekend. The state’s commissioner of information, Gbenga Omotoso, in a statement on Sunday said Abayomi would return to work gradually. He said, “It is with gratitude to God that I announce the recovery and subsequent negative test for COVID-19 of the honourable commissioner for health, Akin Abayomi. Following the mandatory isolation, the commissioner retook a COVID-19 PCR test which returned negative yesterday evening. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Akin Abayomi, Lagos Health Commissioner Contracts COVID-19 “Abayomi is very grateful and humbled by the deep concern shown and expressed by executive council members, civil servants, Lagos residents, Nigerians, both locally and in the diaspora, through prayers, messages, phone calls and gifts. “He will be returning to his full duties gradually and remains resolute in delivering the mandate of Mr Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, whom he says stood by him steadfastly in these trying times and is very appreciative of. “Governor Sanwo-Olu, the incident commander, is excited by the news and urges Lagosians to realise that COVID-19 is still with us; they should keep obeying the guidelines- watching their hands, wearing face masks and avoiding large gatherings, among others.” The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has began an end of the year, nationwide campaign with the theme; ‘Drive Safe and Stay Safe’, advocating for safer driving. The Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, in a statement on Monday called on the motoring public to make the year 2020 ’ember’ months unique and crash free by adhering strictly to road traffic regulations. He said road traffic crashes are avoidable and road crash free society is possible when best road practices are applied. READ ALSO: FRSC Cautions Motorists On Increased Dangers During Ember Months Bisi Kazeem, the Corps Public Education Officer, who released the statement quoted the Corps Marshal as strongly cautioning motorists to note that the end of the year is not naturally tragic and are not in anyway different from other months of the year, only that there seem to be an increase in vehicular movement witnessed during the season. Debunking the myth that the last four months of the year commonly referred to as ’ember months’ are hazardous for motorists, the Corps Marshal said that it was very possible to drive without involving in a crash as long as motorists obey and adhere strictly to traffic laws and ensure constant maintenance of their vehicles. The Corps Marshal issued out some salient travelling and safety advisories to travellers. He said, “With the rapid infrastructural development going on in the rail transportation sector under the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, commuters are advised to maximise that alternative means of transportation by patronising the train stations where available, as this will drastically reduce the pressure on the road transportation sector.” READ ALSO: FRSC Deploys Personnel For Eid el Kabir He stated that the traveling public must  start thinking about transport sharing as early as possible, to reduce pressure on the road as this will further reduce incidences of road traffic crashes. Family and friends were further admonished to plan and travel in phases, so as to avoid cluster of traffic during the ember months. Oyeyemi also warned that all travelling protocols for COVID-19 must be strictly adhered to. Noting that the enforcement on 50 per cent carrying capacity for all vehicles targeted at creating adequate physical distancing is still in place, and the Corps will not spare any fleet operator caught violating this directives. READ ALSO: How FRSC Officials Rescued Pregnant Driver In Labour He maintained that fleet operators must religiously follow all safety precautions, observe preventive measures against the dreaded virus, and comply with every bit of travelling directives already in place. “Terminals and parks are expected to double up their efforts in providing adequate running water with soap and sanitisers in their parks and terminals. While maintaining physical distancing, all vehicles must have sanitisers inside them and avoid as much as possible, the use of air conditioner among others”