President Muhammadu Buhari has suspended Dr. Wale Babalakin, the Pro-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, setting up a seven-man Visitation Panel to investigate the crisis in the university. The president as the Vistor of the university announced the suspension of the Vice Chancellor of the University Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe who controversially removed by the Babalakin led Governing Council of the university. READ ALSO: Governing Council Sacks UNILAG VC, Professor Ogundipe The president called on the Senate of UNILAG to appoint an acting Vice Chancellor, effectively sacking Prof Theophilus Soyombo, who appointed by the Governing Council in acting capacity after Ogundipe was sacked by the Babalakin led council last week. The Visitation Panel is to submit its report within two weeks. READ ALSO: UNILAG Governing Council Appoints Prof. Soyombo Acting Vice Chancellor Members of the panel include Tukur Sa’ad as chairman, Victor Onuoha, Ikenna Oyindo, Ekanem Braide, Adamu K. Usman, Jimoh Bankole and Grace Ekanem, NTA reported. The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (EVC/CEO) of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, has said Nigeria is on a journey of transformation because of the various projects being executed by the Commission and other agencies under the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy (FMoCDE). Danbatta stated this during the 4th phase of the virtual commissioning of additional 12 digital economy projects implemented by agencies under the Ministry by the Minister, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, which also coincided with the Minister’s one year anniversary in office. According to a statement later released by the director of public affairs at NCC, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde,  Danbatta commended the Minister for creating a platform for the commissioning of the various projects executed by the agencies under the Ministry. READ ALSO: NCC Seeks To Engage Consumer Advocacy Groups This he said, had helped to showcase the President’s achievements in leveraging Information and Communications Technology (ICT) to propel the economic development of the country. Chairman of the occasion was Governor Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State and had a number of Federal Ministers, Heads of Agencies and other dignitaries in attendance. Danbatta said the projects being executed were auspicious and would have a far-reaching positive impact on Nigerians, who are the ultimate beneficiaries. READ ALSO: NCC Asks Service Providers And State Govts To Collaborate, Address RoW Challenges He said “through the various projects, we are building shared and sustainable prosperity for this country. We are also making governance more open and transparent because people are able to participate and have a say in the way and manner the country is governed. “The projects will eliminate poverty through skill development; and above all, we are creating a competitive and innovative economy through the promotion of the usage and deployment of various ICT applications and services in the economy.” READ ALSO: NCC Opens Emergency Communications Centres In Ilorin And Calabar Danbatta said, “all these are value additions that are unprecedented in the sector, noting that the Commission is proud to be associated with the laudable achievements of the Ministry under the leadership of the Hon. Minister of Communications and Digital economy.” The 12 projects commissioned include the Virtual Examination Centre (VEC) at Enugu State College of Education (Technical), Kano State Emergency Communications Centre (ECC) in Kano State implemented by the NCC. Three of the projects, including an E-Library at Federal College of Education (Technical) Bichi, Kano State; E-Accessibility Centre (EAC) at Government School for the Deaf, Malumfashi, Katsina State; and School Knowledge Centre (SKC) located at AUD High School, Ikole-Ekiti, Ekiti State, were executed by the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF) of NCC. Other commissioned projects, which were executed by the National Information Technology Development Agencies (NITDA) include the Digital Capacity Training Centre in Elkanemi College of Islamic Theology, Yola, Adamawa State; and ICT Innovation Hub at Oyo State Trade Fair Complex, Ibadan, Oyo State. The projects also include the digital capacity development programme for artisans (DCDP) with centres in Suleja, Niger State; LAUTECH, Ogbomoso, Oyo State; Federal College of Education, Okene, Kogi State; National Institute of Information Technology (NIIT), Owerri, Imo State and Benchils School, Warri, Delta State.