Seven more people in Nigeria have died from COVID-19 according to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Giving an update on the number of COVID-19 cases on Thursday, the NCDC put the total death toll in the country at 992. The NCDC also reported 476 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 265 more patients discharged from hospital. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Cases In Nigeria Reach 50,488 There are now 50,964 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria and a total of 37,569 patients that have so far been discharged. Lagos State reported the highest number of new infections with 235 cases, followed by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), which reported 44 cases. Kaduna State recorded 41 new cases, Borno State had 33, Plateau State had 28, Abia and Edo states had 13 each, while Rivers State had 12. WATCH ALSO: The Bright Side of COVID-19 – Improved Customer Service in Nigeria In Imo State, there were 11 new cases, 10 in Oyo State, nine in Kano State, seven in Kwara State, five each in Enugu and Katsina states, four each in Gombe and Ogun states, and one each in Nasarawa and Zamfara states. The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has withdrawn an invitation to Governor Nasiru El-Rufai of Kaduna State to speak at its Annual General Conference coming up later this month. The decision to withdraw the invitation followed a petition against the governor by the Open Bar Initiative, which accused him of intolerance towards lawyers and the legal profession. The petition was written to the chairman of the Technical Committee on Conference Planning, Prof. Koyinsola Ajaji, earlier this week. It was however the National Executive Committee of the NBA, which met on Thursday, that made the final decision to withdraw the invitation. The NBA in a tweet said, “The National Executive Committee of the Nigerian Bar Association at its ongoing meeting resolved that the invitation to Kaduna State Governor,  H. E Nasir El-Rufai by the Planning Committee be withdrawn and the decision communicated to the Governor. ” Open Bar Initiative, in its allegations against El-RufI said, “In 2016, when he was visited by the then President of the Nigeria Bar Association, Barrister A.B Mahmoud, SAN, Governor el-Rufai threatened to abduct Kaduna lawyer, Ms. Gloria Ballason, because she had criticized him in a news article, a perfectly lawful act of exercising constitutionally protected speech. “Ms. Ballason sued to protect her rights and in May 2017 secured a judgment of the High Court of Kaduna State, which found that the governor had indeed violated her rights. The high court awarded also damages against the governor.” They said, “He refused to pay up. Instead, he instigated another round of violations of the rights of Ms Ballason to practice her vocation as a lawyer. The high court specifically found that they had violated the United Nations Basic Principles on the Role of Lawyers.”