A presidential candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the 2019 general elections, Dr. Mailafia Obadiah, has said the commander of Boko Haram in Nigeria is a sitting northern governor. He has also suggested that the federal government is part and parcel of the killings in Southern Kaduna. Obadiah, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) made the comments in an interview with Nigeria Info FM after he was asked whether the government was unwilling or unable to curb the killings in Southern Kaduna. READ ALSO: Boko Haram: We’ve Saboteurs Within And President Buhari Must Know – Zulum A video clip of the interview has been widely circulated on social media. During the interview, he said, “It is not only unwilling, it is unable. And we have good reason to believe they are part and parcel of the killers. “How will a government just say it is revenge killing, then leave it there? The body language of this administration, the body language of the state government shows clearly that they have a hand in the killings, no doubt about.” READ ALSO: Boko Haram kills 69 In Fresh Borno Attacks He said, “Let me make some revelations because some of us also have our intelligence networks. We have met with some bandits. We have met with some of their high commanders. One or two have repented. “They told us one of the northern governors is the commander of Boko Haram in Nigeria. Boko Haram and the bandits are the same. They have a sophisticated network.” Obadiah went on to say the bandits moved weapons and logistics during the lockdown and are already in the rainforest of the south in Nigeria. READ ALSO: Boko Haram Executes Five Humanitarian Workers He also said the bandits planned to start killing prominent Nigerians in urban cities once they finished with the killings in rural areas. He said, “This is the game plan. By 2022, they want to start a civil war in Nigeria.  Don’t joke with what I’m saying. I have a PhD from Oxford University. I am a central banker. We don’t talk nonsense.” The Federal Government has finally  received the 200 ventilators promised Nigeria  by United States President Donald Trump several months ago to aid in the fight against COVID-19. The US President made the promise during a phone call with Prisident Muhammadu Buhari back in April. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire wbho received the ventilators from USAID on Tuesday said they are a critical component of the response strategy to save the lives of persons who have been severely impacted by this viral infection. He said, “They will certainly be of great benefit to the people of Nigeria and I wish to convey the appreciation of His Excellency Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and of the government of Nigeria, to President Donald Trump and the United States Government for the generous consideration and friendly gesture.” READ ALSO: COVID-19: Trump Calls Buhari, Promises Him Ventilators The minister said, “We particularly appreciate that this gift comes against the backdrop that the United States is also fighting its own fierce battle against the COVID-19 plague. We wish them the very best in this challenge. “I wish to also commend the United States Agency for International Development, the USCDC and the US Ambassador to Nigeria – Her Excellency Mary Beth Leonard, for their interest and engagement in Nigeria, even beyond the advent of COVID-19. Her Excellency has demonstrated personal concern by paying a solidarity visit to the Federal Ministry of Health.” Ehanire said, “I conclude by requesting the United States Government to lend its full weight to global efforts to find efficacious therapeutics and vaccines to neutralize the threat of COVID-19 to the global community and to guarantee fair allocation to all countries and people. READ ALSO: Nigerian Government Begs Elon Musk For Ventilators On Twitter “The speed and ease with which COVID-19 has spread across the globe clearly shows that it is a threat to mankind. Without the full collaboration of all nations, the threat of COVID-19 to any one part of the world is a threat to all.”