President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Dr. Akinwumi Adesina on his re-election for a second term in office as the President of African Development Bank (AfDB). Buhari’s congratulatory message which was contained in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, noted that Adesina deserved the re-election. READ ALSO: ‘I Will Continue To Support You,’ Buhari Assures Adesina, AfDB President The presidential spokesman said the news of the victory came during the Council of State meeting, which was attended by former Heads of State, Presidents of the Senate, state governors, some ministers, and senior government officials. The statement read, “As Secretary to Government of the Federation, Mr. Mustapha, announced the good news, President Buhari led a round of applause, and said: “He deserves it.” READ ALSO: Nigeria’s Adesina Cleared Of Wrong Doing At AfDB “The President extends appreciation to the African Union for its endorsement of the AfDB President much earlier, and to shareholders of the bank who worked tirelessly to ensure the return of the hardworking visionary leader.” READ ALSO: Nigeria’s Adesina Re-elected AfDB President Recall that President Buhari had in the heat of the corruption allegations against Adesina at the AfDB, assured him that he would support his re-election. James Momoh, the Chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has said that the newly introduced electricity tariff reviews will only follow service-based principles. In statement on Thursday, he said that under the service-based principles, Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOs) would only be able to review tariff rates for customers when they consult with customers, commit to increasing the number of hours of supply per day and quality of service. Momoh said, “In all cases poor and vulnerable Nigerians will not experience any increase. In line with these expectations, DISCOs are directed to engage with their customers on a Service Based Tariff structure.” READ ALSO: Electricity Tariff Hike: Lawan, Gbajabiamila Meet Buhari, Osinbajo, Say Timing Is Wrong He said that under the Service Based Tariff Structure, DISCOs could only review tariffs for customers under certain conditions. One condition is that “customers are consulted and communicated a guaranteed level of electricity service by the DISCOs based on hours of supply Customers are metered. He said, “No estimated billing through the strict enforcement of the capping regulation. This means that unmetered customers will not experience any cost increase beyond what is chargeable to metered customers in the same area.” READ ALSO: Electricity: FEC Approves N8.64bn For Phase One Of Siemens Deal Momoh said, “Even under the above conditions, there will be no change in tariff for the most vulnerable as tariffs for those consuming 50KW or less remain frozen. “Customers receiving less than 12 hours of supply will also not experience any change in tariffs. In addition, the President has directed that there should be a nationwide mass-metering program in an effort by the Federal Government to put a stop to estimated and arbitrary billing for electricity. READ ALSO: FG Approves Extra N47.2bn To Boost Electricity Supply “He has also approved a waiver of the import levy on meters, so that those that do not have meters can be supplied as early as possible at reasonable costs.”