President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday met with the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Ize-Iyamu was led to the presidential villa by the Chairman of APC Caretaker Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni. Also in the delegation were Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and Govrnor Abdulahi Ganduje of Kano. READ ALSO: Edo House Of Assembly Roof Stripped Off After Dramatic Impeachment The meeting is coming just as the political atmosphere in Edo is turning more volatile and violent and both APC and PDP laying claim to the leadership of the House of Assembly after the impeachment of the Speaker, Frank Okiye, on Thursday. The impeachment followed a takeover of the assembly complex by security operatives and the subsequent swearing in of 12 lawmakers who previously been unable to take the oath of office for over a year after they were elected. The 12 lawmakers along with five others believe to make up a faction loyal to former national chairman of the APC  elected Victor Edoror as speaker. READ ALSO: Edo House Of Assembly Impeaches Deputy Speaker The PDP had in a statement on Thursday accused Oshiomhole  of being behind the police takeover of  the Edo State House of Assembly. The National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, asked the Inspector-General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, to stop the attempt to take over the Assembly. He said, “The party posits that the invasion and illegal occupation of the state legislature by security agents allegedly deployed by sacked national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, is a direct coup against the democratic order of Edo State and a recipe for anarchy, chaos, and bloodletting. READ ALSO: ‘You Said Ize-Iyamu Was Bad Product’, Wike Reminds Oshiomhole “We urge the Inspector-General to act with dispatch to curb this nefarious situation, which has heightened tension in the state, and if not halted, may result in a bloody clash as the citizens are already charged to defend their symbol of democracy from a forceful takeover.” “The police hierarchy is urged to note that this provocative and lawless act by the APC is part of its plans to overheat the polity and create a security situation with the view to unleash violence on the people, derail the democratic order in the state and blame it on security agencies.“ The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, has said that Nigerians are not seeing massive infrastructural development and other achievements of the President Buhari-led government because they are not “calming down”. Borrowing words from the trending video of a boy who was seen begging his mother to “calm down” and not punish him for picking what was not given to him, Adesina, in his week column published in The Interview on Friday, said Nigerians needed to “calm down” to see and appreciate what the government of Buhari has done. He said Nigerians were “too uptight, nervy, edgy. We grumble, murmur too much, call the government a lot of names, try to demonise those serving the nation, when it could be “our last chance. Last chance in the world” to really fix things.” READ ALSO: Why We Need To Calm Down “If we calm down, what would we see? Massive infrastructural developments. Roads, rail, airports, bridges, efforts to reverse power deficit of many decades, newly approved Youth Bank to empower the younger generation, strident efforts to secure the country, N2.3 trillion stimulus package to combat the negative effect of COVID-19, and many other positive developments. There are many, and many more”. Adesina said criticisms on killings, banditry, joblessness, corruption from some angry youths, religious leaders, political analyst and activist were false, adding that these problems were not peculiar to Nigeria as a country. “If you listen to some people; angry youths, religious leaders, political analysts, newspaper columnists, news reviewers, so-called activists, then nothing positive is happening in the country. It is all about insurgency, banditry, killings, joblessness, corruption, lack and deprivation. True? False! READ ALSO: ‘Mummy Calm Down’ Video: Sanwo-Olu Urges Lagosians To Celebrate Sallah With Moderation “Those things are there, as they are also in many countries of the world. But they are not the only things happening in Nigeria. Only that we would not see the positive things, except we calmed down. We would never enjoy the rainfall, if we expect rainstorm to carry away our rooftop at any moment. Calm down. “I’m just telling you to be ‘calming’ down”, Adesina said.