The Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, has announced that all the 104 Unity Colleges in the country are ready to open for exit classes tomorrow. The Federal Government had released a comprehensive schedule for various National Examinations for exit classes, beginning from August 17 to November 18, 2020 last week. In a statement issued by the Director of Press and Public Relations, BemGoong, the Minister of State for Education, on Monday, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, announced the preparedness of the Unity Colleges at a meeting with Honourable Commissioners of Education of the States of the Federation this morning. READ ALSO: Secondary Schools To Reopen August 4 “The Honourable Minister of State for Education, Permanent Secretary and Directors will embark on an assessment tour of all Unity Colleges to ascertain and confirm the reports they have received from the Principals of Unity Colleges. “Similarly, Federal Education Quality Assurance Directors deployed to the States have been directed to monitor compliance in their respective states. “Honourable Commissioners from the States were enjoined to embark on assessment tours in their jurisdictions to ascertain the level of preparations for reopening”, the statement reads. READ ALSO: COVID-19: President Buhari To Decide Reopening Of Schools, Places Of Worships Today “While most schools will reopen tomorrow, others will continue to fine tune their preparations in the coming days for reopening. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba also asked schools to communicate their specific reopening dates to their parents and students in order to avoid chaos in the system. South African chain store operators, Shoprite Holdings Limited, has reported plans to sell its retail outlets Nigeria after recording poor sells. While it has might a slight profit outside operation in Nigeria, reports released on Monday show negative growth in Nigeria. The report said, “Operational and Voluntary Trading Update (52 Weeks Ended 28 June 2020)” released on Monday, the megastores with presence in virtually all parts of Nigeria said the retail supermarkets arm will be disposed. “Following approaches from various potential investors, and in line with our re-evaluation of the Group’s operating model in Nigeria, the Board has decided to initiate a formal process to consider the potential sale of all, or a majority stake, in Retail Supermarkets Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of Shoprite International Limited.” Shoprite said, “As such, Retail Supermarkets Nigeria Limited may be classified as a discontinued operation when Shoprite reports its results for the year. Any further updates will be provided to the market at the appropriate time.” Shoprite has been in Nigeria for 15 years and has some 25 retail store across the country.