Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi has tested negaitive for COVID-19 after 11 days in isolation. Fayemi, who tested positive eleven days ago, disclosed via his twitter handle on Saturday that the COVID-19 test he took while in isolation had returned negative. He said, “After 11 days in isolation, I received news that my CoviD 19 repeat test came back negative. My sincere gratitude goes to God Almighty, my family, my medical team and all well wishers for the prayers and solidarity. We must continue to do all we can to tackle the pandemic. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Governor Fayemi Contracts COVID-19 Fayemi is the seventh serving Nigerian governor to have contracted COVID-19 and also recovered. Other six state governors who have tested positive for COVID-19 and recovered include; Bala Mohammed, Governor of Bauchi State; Nasir El-Rufai, the governor of Kaduna State, Seyi Makinde, Governor of Oyo State, Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State, Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Ekiti State has recorded 133 cases, discharged 55 patients and recorded 2 deaths so far as a result of COVID-19. President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed to investigate all cases of corruption, both past and present related to his government. The president was referring to issues of corruption that have recently come to light within the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He spoke shortly after observing the Eid prayers at the State House on Friday. He said, “This is why we put the commission ( investigative panel) in place. There has been abuse of trust by people trusted by the previous administration and this administration.” Referring to the corruption scandal rocking the NDDC, he said, “If you recall, there is the 13 per cent derivation.” He said that the fund was being wasted. The president also committed to allocating more resources to fight insecurity, even as he expressed disappointment in the service chiefs. He said, “I want Nigerians to be very conscious of their country and what we inherited when we came in 2015 was Boko Haram in the north-east and the militancy in the south-south… Nigerians know that we have done our best,” he said. “What is coming up in the north-west and north-central is very disturbing indeed but I believe the military, the police, and other law enforcement agencies from the report I am getting, I think they could do much better. They could do much better, but we are keeping them on the alert all the time to do their duties.”