The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Thursday reported 354 new cases of COVID-19 and three new deaths due to the disease. There are now 45,244 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country while 32,430 patients have been discharged and 930 deaths recorded. READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase At least 17 states reported new cases with the federal Capital Territory (FCT) reporting 78 cases, the highest from any state. Lagos State recorded the second highest with 76 new cases, Kaduna State had 23, Ebonyi State had 19, Oyo State had 18, while Nasarawa and Rivers states had 17 cases each. READ ALSO: 17 More Nigerians Die From COVID-19 In Delta State, 16 new cases were reported, 15 in Kwara State, 13 in Akwa Ibom State, 12 each  in Edo and Ogun states, 11 in Plateau State, nine in Kano State and six each in Bauchi, Borno and Ekiti states. The Federal Government has announced that international are expected to resume in a matter of weeks after more than four months of suspension due to the coronavirus. This was revealed by the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, on Thursday the COVID-19 of the Presidential Task Force. While not giving a specific date, the minister stated that he would like flights to resume as soon as possible, saying thousands of jobs had already been lost due to the pandemic. READ ALSO: International Flights May Resume Before October – Hadi Sirika The National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Sani Aliyu, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, and other agencies, as well as airlines, should commence the process for the resumption of international flights. He said, “Specific to air transportation, as you are aware, domestic flights have already resumed, the railway sector has also restarted. For international travel, we have made recommendations to the aviation industry to commence the process for reopening international airports provided all existing international and local Covid-19 protocol are in place. READ ALSO: Nigeria Suspends All International Flights “We have modified the protocol for passenger arrivals at the airports. Domestic passengers arriving at the airports are advised to arrive one hour before their flights and three hours before international flights – when this restarts.”