Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said he was warned by United States Ambassador to Nigeria, Walter Carrington that late Head of State, Gen Sani Abacha planned to have him arrested and offered him asylum in the United States of America. Obasanjo who turned down the offer of  political asylum in the US from the late Carrington came during a visit to Copenhagen, Denmark to attend the World Social Summit as Human Development Ambassador of the United Nations Development Programme. Obasanjo wrote all this in a condolence letter to the wife of the late Ambassador, Arese Carrington. READ ALSO: Walter Carrington, Former US Ambassador To Nigeria Dies At 90 He said, “Carrington was one of the responsible, matured and respected voices to take Nigeria out of the unwholesome situation it had found itself – permanently in crisis, regularly threatened with disintegration, prolongingly devoid of democracy, and economically plundered and mismanaged. “Indeed, I recall, sometime in 1995, that on one of my trips to Copenhagen to attend World Social Summit as Human Development Ambassador of the United Nations Development Programme, I received the most touching of the warnings, pieces of advice and offers to me from Amb. Carrington.” Obasanjo said, “He called me in Copenhagen and told me categorically that I was going to be arrested on returning home and, therefore, advised me not to return home. But he did not stop it there, he offered me political asylum by his government in the US. READ ALSO: How Abacha Tried Using Me To Silence Walter – Arese Carrington “That was both touching and assuring, but I decided that, tempting and assuring as the offer was, I would not take it. I came back and was arrested and imprisoned by Abacha. No doubt, his generous assistance to my family while I was a political prisoner makes me forever indebted to him.” The former president said, “When I was in prison, he was one of the few foreign Ambassadors who regularly visited my wife to encourage her and to find out how I was doing in prison. I can proudly say he was a true friend and brother.
While expressing sadness over the death of Carrington. “I write to convey, on behalf of my family and on my own behalf, our profound sympathy and solidarity with you over the death of your beloved husband and one of the most outstanding diplomats of our time in the world, Amb. Walter Carrington.” Chief Edwin Clark has cautioned the Federal Government against ending the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) that was introduced to promote peace in the Niger Delta region and to rehabilate repentant militants. Clark was speaking during a virtual press conference in response to what he believes to be information that a panel set up by the federal government to look into the activities of the amnesty programme had recommended its scrapping with effect from December. READ ALSO: FG Recovers N3.7bn From NDDC Contractors He said, “When I got this information yesterday, my temper was high because how can a region, which contributes so much to the economic growth, and by extension, political and social growth of the country, be treated with so much disdain and spite?” Clark said, “Except they have prepared another ‘Operation Crocodile Smile, government needs to be very cautious. Wake not a sleeping lion. This is not a threat; it is a clarion call for peace.” The Ijaw leader questioned why the members of the investigative panel didn’t visit the Niger Delta region to see things for themselves and make informed judgments. He said, “Did Ambassador Lawal and his team ever travel to the Niger Delta region to find out if the objective of setting up the programme such as infrastructural development, sand filling; building low- cost houses, building roads, which are to be carried out by the PAP as its second phase activities contained in the proclamation, been achieved? As someone outside of the region does he really understand or feel the sufferings of the people of the region? READ ALSO: Industrial Fishing Will Multiply Jobs In Niger Delta – Patrick Osoba “Also, what measures have been put in place by the federal government to fulfill its promises to the region such as setting up modular refineries, the relocation of the operational headquarters of the International Oil Companies (IOCs) and the Ogoni cleanup as contained in the 16-point Agenda of the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), which we presented to Mr. President at the Presidential Villa on 1st November, 2017? Our living condition in the region has worsened. The PAP should be allowed to continue for some more time.”