The Independent National Electoral Commission has said it will appeal at the Supreme Court, a Court of Appeal judgement on Monday that voided its deregistration of 22 political parties. The Court of Appeal had ruled that INEC needed to prove that it had complied with the procedure outlined under the law in deregistering political parties. READ ALSO: Court Stops INEC From Deregistering 31 Political Parties Festus Okoye, INEC commissioner for information, said in a statement it was necessary to seek clarification from the Supreme Court because there were two conflicting judgements coming out of the Court of Appeal. He said, “The Commission is faced with two conflicting judgements from the Court of Appeal; one affirming the powers of the Commission to deregister political parties and the other setting aside the deregistration of ACD & 22 others.” Okoye said, “Faced with two conflicting judgements from the same Court, the Commission is not in a position to pick and choose which one of them to obey. READ ALSO: INEC Introduces Election Result Viewing Portal “Consequently, the Commission will approach the Supreme Court for a final resolution of the issues raised in the two conflicting judgements.” Nigeria’s death toll from the coronavirus pandemic has reach 950 as five more deaths were announced on Monday. The latest update released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control also showed the country recorded 290 new cases of COVID-19. It makes the second time in the month of August that less than 300 new cases were reported. On August 3, there were 288 new cases. The last Nigeria recorded less than 200 new cases in a day was on May 28, when 182 new infections were reported. With the latest figures from NCDC, there are now 46,867 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infections in Nigeria and 33,346 patients discharged from hospital. Lagos and Plateau had the highest number of new cases with 82 each, followed by Oyo wich reported 19 cases.
The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 18 new cases, Edo had 16, Kaduna had 15, while Enugu and Ogun each recorded nine new infections Kano and Kwara states each had eight new cases, Cross River State, Ondo and Rivers states had five each, Ekiti State had four, Imo State had three and Borno State had two.