The Minister of Communications and the Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami has said his ministry has executed 500 projects in the last five years. All of the projects, he said were part of the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari to promote national security, diversify the economy and fight corruption. He spoke on Tuesday during the virtual launch from Abuja of 11 new projects executed by at least six agencies under the supervision of his ministry. READ ALSO: NCC Opens Emergency Communications Centres In Ilorin And Calabar The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), projects that were commissioned virtually by the Minister include the Emergency Communication Centres (ECC’s) in Ilorin, Kwara and Calabar, Cross River. Also built and commissioned by NCC were the e-Health/Data Sharing Centre, Medical College, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi; and Virtual  Examination Centre, University of Maiduguri, Borno. The Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF), another agency of the ministry executed projects including the Tertiary Institution Knowledge Centre (TIKC), Delta and School Knowledge Centre (SKC) located at Government Day Secondary School, Hassan Central, Gombe. READ ALSO: NCC Asks Banks To Settle N17bn USSD Debt Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) launched three projects which include the Information Technology (IT) and Incubation Park, University of Ayangba, Kogi, ICT Capacity Building Centres at the College of Education, Gumel, Jigawa and Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Imo. Also commissioned were projects of the Nigerian Postal Service, the Neighbourhood Post Office/NIRSAL Microfinance Bank branch, Delta State and the Remodeled National Mail Exchange Centre (Mbiama), Ahoada West LGA, Rivers State. Nigeria’s secret police, the Department of State Security Services has invited Obadiah Mailafia, a former presidential candidate, to its office in Jos, Plateau State. The invitation came after Mailafia in an interview with Nigeria Info FM, claimed to have it on authority that a northern governor was the commander of Boko Haram. READ ALSO: Northern Governor Commander Of Boko Haram – Mailafia Obadiah The African Democratic Congress (ADC) candidate had also claimed that the Federal Government had a hand in the killings in Southern Kaduna. Mailafia, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is to appear at the SSS office on Wednesday (today) August 12, 2020 before 12pm. READ ALSO: Boko Haram: We’ve Saboteurs Within And President Buhari Must Know – Zulum ”Let me make some revelations because some of us also have our own intelligence network. We have met with some of the bandits, we have met with some of their high commanders, one or two who have repented. They have sat down with us, not once, not twice. “They told us one of the northern governors is the commander of Boko Haram in Nigeria. Boko Haram and the bandits are the same. They have a sophisticated network.” the former CBN deputy governor had said.