Plateau State accounted for 103 of the 443 new cases of COVID-19 reported by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Friday. The NCDC update showed that Nigeria now has a total 45,687 confirmed of the Coronavirus disease, 32,637 discharged patients and 936 deaths recorded. After Plateau, Lagos State reported the second highest number of new cases with 70. The Federal Capital Territory, (FCT) had 60 new cases while Ondo recorded 35 new cases. READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase Edo and Rivers states had 27 new cases each, Kaduna State had 20, Osun State had 19, Borno and Oyo states had 18 each, while Kwara State had 11 new cases. In Adamawa, there were nine new cases, seven in Nasarawa State, six in Gombe State, four in Bayelsa and Imo states, two in Bauchi and Ogun  states, and one in Kano State. President Muhammadu Buhari Friday in Abuja assented to the Companies and Allied Matters Bill, 2020, recently passed by the National Assembly. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, announced this in a statement shared on his Facebook page on Friday. “The President’s action on this important piece of legislation, therefore, repealed and replaced the extant Companies and Allied Matters Act, 1990. “The new Companies Allied Matters Act assented to by present Buhari on Friday which is coming 30 years after the first Compabies Allied Matters Act 1990, has several corporate legal innovations geared toward enhancing ease of doing business in the country”, Adesina said. “Filing fee reductions and other reforms to make it easier and cheaper for small and medium-sized enterprises to register and reform their businesses in Nigeria; “Allowing corporate promoters of companies to establish private companies with a single member or shareholder, and creating limited liability partnerships and limited partnerships to give investors and business people alternative forms of carrying out their business in an efficient and flexible way; “Innovating processes and procedures to ease the operations of companies, such as introducing Statements of Compliance; replacing “authorised share capital” with minimum share capital to reduce costs of incorporating companies; and providing for electronic filing, electronic share transfers, e-meetings as well as remote general meetings for private companies in response to the disruptions to close contact physical meetings due to the COVID-19 pandemic; “Requiring the disclosure of persons with significant control of companies in a register of beneficial owners to enhance corporate accountability and transparency; and “Enhancing the minority shareholder protection and engagement; introducing enhanced business rescue reforms for insolvent companies; and permitting the merger of Incorporated Trustees for associations that share similar aims and objectives”, Adesina said.