President Muhammadu Buhari has joined family and friends of Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi in felicitating with him as he marks his 80th birthday on August 2. In a public statement on Saturday released by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to President on Media and Publicity, the President noted Adelusi-Adeluyi’s many achievements. Buhari said, “At 80, as you are celebrated by family, friends, associates and professional colleagues from far and near, I wish you longer life, greater strength, and more salutary impact on our country, and across all walks of life.” READ ALSO: My Bitter-Sweet Experience In Business – Prince Adelusi-Adeluyi Speaks At 80 He said, “It gives me immense pleasure to rejoice with you as you attain the milestone age of 80 in sound mind and good health. “Your life is one signposted by many achievements, which undoubtedly inspire the younger generation to noble ideals.” Listing some major successes by Adelusi-Adeluyi, Buhari said, “Your imprints are clearly left on the sands of time, and these include: Founder and Chairman of Juli Plc, first indigenous company quoted on the Nigeria Stock Exchange; former Minister of Health; past Chairman of Oodua Investment Ltd; Distinguished Fellow, Institute of Directors; Fellow, Institute of Management; Fellow, West Africa Post Graduate College; and pioneer President, Nigeria Academy of Pharmacy. “As an accomplished pharmacist, lawyer and key player in many private sector organizations, you are on the Governing Council and past president of the Alumni Association of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies; first District Governor of Rotary International, District 9110, Nigeria; and Chairman of MTN Foundation. You received national awards of MFR in 1986 and OFR in 2002.” President Muhammad Buhari on Saturday congratulated newly elected president of the Nigerian Bar Association, Olumide Akpata. Akpata, 47, emerged as the NBA president election on Friday, polling 9,891 votes to defeat Babatunde Ajibade who had 4,328 votes and Dele Adesina who polled 3,982 votes, in the election. Congratulating Akpata on his electoral victory in a statement signed by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President On Media and Publicity on Saturday, Buhari wished him every success in the new position of leading Nigerian lawyers to chart a path of professional development and fulfilment. “I congratulate Olumide Akpata on his election as the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), a crucial stakeholder in our democracy. “I wish him every success in the new position, and assure the new leadership of the continued cooperation of our administration”, Buhari said, He added that he trusted that Mr. Akpata’s vast knowledge and experience in litigation, corporate world and engaging with government at different levels, would greatly benefit the Bar and indeed all Nigerians, who look up to the learned fellows as crucial stakeholders in a modern democracy.” President Buhari also assured the new leadership of the NBA of the continued cooperation of his administration in addressing the broad range of challenges and opportunities facing the legal profession and the country.