Five months after suspending international travel, the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Siriki has announced a resumption of International flights from August 29, 2020. The minister in a tweet on Monday said the flights would be from the airports in Lagos. He had said earlier in a briefing that there would four flights each from Lagos and Abuja. Siriki said it was now safe to travel as long as the Necessary protocols are observed. READ ALSO: International Flights May Resume Before October – Hadi Sirika In the tweet, he said, “Glad to announce the resumption of international flights from the 29th of August, 2020. Beginning with Lagos and Abuja as we did with the domestic flight resumption. “Protocols and procedures will be announced in due course. We thank you for your patience.” READ ALSO: Nigeria Suspends All International Flights The airport were shut to international travel for commercial airlines for all but essential flights on March 23, 2020 in an effort to contain the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic. Domestic flights started operations on July 8, 2020 with new protocols adopted by the airport authorities. The State Security Services (SSS) has for the second time in less than a week invited  to its office Obadiah Mailafia, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and onetime presidential candidate. Mailafia  is to appear at the SSS office in Jos, Plateau State on Monday by 12 noon according to his lawyer, Yakubu Bawa. READ ALSO: Northern Governor Commander Of Boko Haram – Mailafia Obadiah Mailafia had in an interview Nigeria Info 99.3 FM alleged that a northern governor had the commander of Boko Haram, naming repentant terrorists as his source. The SSS invited him to appear on Wednesday, August 12, 2020 where he had reportedly apologised. READ ALSO: Boko Haram Governor: Mailafia Changes Story, Names Traders As His Informants Bawa, his lawyer suggested the latest  invitation was a follow up on the previous one and did not expect the encounter be any different from the first.