Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) will on September 1, 2020 make a public declaration on the three winners if its N9 million research grants for startups with the most promising ideas to use digital solution in the combat of the coronavirus pandemic. The Commission selected the three yet to be announced startups from an entry of 282 in its COVID-19 Virtual Hackathon from digital innovation Startups and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). All 282 entries were evaluated by a committee set up by the Commission, with the Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Prof. Umar Danbatta, already extending invitations to operators and other industry stakeholders to participate virtually in the Grant/Prize Award ceremony. READ ALSO: NCC Offers Start-ups N3m For Ideas To Combat COVID-19 The physical venue for the ceremony is expected to be the Conference Room of the Commission at 11:00 am prompt on Tuesday September 1, 2020. According to the Commission, the health and economic crisis triggered by the novel COVID-19 Pandemic had challenged the global ICT community to search for digital solutions to address and contain the spread of the virus. Such solutions would allow citizens and businesses to rein in the virus and continue their activities with limited disruptions. NCC instituted a programme to award research grants to support Startups and Digital SME’s with adaptable innovative digital solutions that could address present and future impacts of pandemic and epidemic-prone diseases in Nigeria. Under the programme, the Commission will award N9 million research grants to three Nigerian startups with the most innovative digital solutions for containing pandemics and epidemics in the country in the thematic areas of health, community, productivity, economy and transportation. The highlights of the ceremony include pitching/demonstration of the top three solutions by the startups, announcement of the winners and presentation of research prizes. Femi Fani-Kayode, former Minister of Aviation, has finally apologised to Eyo Charles, the Daily Trust journalist he verbally assaulted during a press conference in Calabar, Cross River state on August 20. After a media backlash over the Calabar incident which was captured on video, Fani-Kayode had apologised to his friends in the media but made no direct apology to Charles. Charles, a correspondent with Daily Trust had asked Fani-Kayode who was funding all his trips to the Southern states he is currently touring, leading to the attack from the former minister. At a different press conference in the Akwa Ibom state government house on Friday August 28, Fani-Kayode asked Charles for forgiveness, saying “I’m deeply sorry for the manner I reacted to what the said reporter. “I was too hard on him. The question was mischievous, but I fell for it. I should have been smarter than that. I am using this opportunity to reach out to him, and I hope he will be kind enough to forgive me.” Fani-Kayode said, “I disappointed myself, my family and friends, my colleagues and even my bosses, those who hold me in high esteem. I have regrets, it was not my finest day.”