17 more Nigerians have been reported by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to have died from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The NCDC on Wednesday also reported 457 new cases of the Coronavirus disease, making it the first time in at least four days, new cases have risen above 400. READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase There are now 44,890 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infections in the country, with 32,165 patients discharged and 927 deaths recorded. Lagos State reported 137 new cases, the highest in the country. It followed by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with 76 new cases. In Plateau State, there 40 new, 35 in Rivers State 34 in Enugu State, 25 in Oyo State, 23 in Abia State, 12 in Delta State and 11 each in Edo and Ebonyi states. READ ALSO: New COVID-19 Cases In Nigeria Decline Further To 288 Cross River and Kwara states had 10 cases each, Kaduna State had nine, Anambra State had seven, Ogun State had five, while Imo and Bauchi states each reported three new cases. Osun and Nasarawa states reported two cases each, while Kano and Ekiti states each had a single new case. The presidency on Wednesday said none of the 601 deradicalised and rehabilitated Boko Haram mil have been recruited into the Nigerian army. Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, in a statement on Wednesday, said claims that deradicalised terrorists had been recruited into the Nigerian army was fake news. “Now that groups with hitherto proven bona fides, some religious leaders and a few in the legislature have joined the supply chain of fake news, it important that we step in to clear the false reports that the administration is absorbing repentant Boko Haram terrorists into the military. “It is important for the public to know that nobody has ever been absorbed into the military from the de-radicalized Boko Haram and there is no such plan for their absorption. “None of the 601 former Boko Haram members who voluntarily laid down their arms, and have recently graduated from the Federal Government’s de-radicalisation and rehabilitation programme, is going into the military. This is the fourth such graduation of repentant Boko Haram fighters and not one of such graduates has been absorbed into the military, Shehu said. READ ALSO: Boko Haram: We’ve Saboteurs Within And President Buhari Must Know – Zulum Shehu noted that the de-radicalisation of Book Haram insurgents was done in-line with global best practices. He said, “The public needs to be reassured that the de-radicalization, rehabilitation and reintegration of violent extremists of the Buhari administration code named “Operation Safe Corridor,” follows an established example from countries with similar experiences, and is supported academically and materially by the European Union and the United Nations. “The lead agency for the implementation of the programme in Gombe is the International Organization for Migration, a leading inter-government organization which is represented in Nigeria. “It is also important to note that this programme does not have a place for hard boiled, ideologically hardened terrorists. It only admits, after careful scrutiny, repentant fighters that were captured and forced to bear arms in the first instance, and there are many who have been drafted by force.” READ ALSO: Boko Haram kills 69 In Fresh Borno Attacks Shehu added that, “At the point of their graduation, a determination is made that the former combatants have repented and are better citizens, imbued with genuine nationalism. They must no longer represent a danger to society or to themselves. “Where they are certified as such, communities have the duty of accepting them. Unless they want them to take up arms and resume terrorism from which they have repented, community leaders must work with the relevant agencies to end their rejection. “The Buhari administration is a responsible one and is conscious of its duty to the state and society, and to the victims of terror as well as to those who inflicted these pains and losses on our people.”