The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday reported four more deaths caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, taking the total death toll in the country to 981. The NCDC also reported 410 new cases of the coronavirus disease. There are now 49,895 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Cases Approaching 50,000 217 patients were however discharged according to the update from NCDC. A total of 37,051 patients have so far been discharged since pandemic first broke out in Nigeria late in February. Lagos State recorded the highest number of new infections with 210 cases. It was followed by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), which had 45 new cases. WATCH ALSO: The Bright Side of COVID-19 – Improved Customer Service in Nigeria Ondo State reported 30 cases, while Plateau State had 21. Edo State had 19 new cases, Ogun State had 16, Oyo State had 13, Nasarawa State had 12 and Bauchi State reported 11 cases. In Enugu State, there were 10 new infections,  seven in Kwara State, six in Kaduna State, four in Anambra State, three in Ebonyi State, two in Abia State and one in Rivers State. The Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) is seeking to establish a database of Consumer Advocacy Groups to help educate The database will serve to inform and educate telecom consumers on their rights and responsibilities. In a request for proposal from interested parties, the commission said this was in line with the Consumer Protection, Information and Education mandate of the Commission, the Consumer Affairs Bureau (CAB). The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, who signed the request said the objective is to have a pool of genuine Advocates who are passionate about consumer protection and are willing to inform and educate telecoms consumers, and also protect consumers from abuses, exploitation and deceit. The groups would assist NCC to educate telecom consumers on their rights and obligations, bridge the communication gaps existing between consumers and the regulator on one hand, and the operating companies on the other. They would also obtain useful feedback to improve telecom service delivery. Describing the scope of the engagement, Danbatta said, it shall include assisting the Commission in creating consumer awareness and education. The groups will sensitize telecom consumers and bridge information gaps on relevant consumer issues  and assist in mobilising and enlightening some target consumers such as market women, artisans, the unskilled and the grassroots at various programmes and regulatory interventions by the Commission that benefit the consumers. They are to provide a leverage for the Commission to execute consumer centric projects that will cover the six (6) Geopolitical zones and impact telecom consumers in the nook and crannies of Nigeria. The advocacy group would also assist in reaching out to special groups like the “Differently Abled People” to ensure all-inclusive participation in the Nigerian telecom space.