The Edo State House of Assembly on Wednesday impeached the deputy speaker, Yekini Idiaye. The House of Assembly elected in his place, Roland Asoro who represents Orhionmwon II state constituency. READ ALSO: 14 Legislators, 18 LG Chairmen Join Obaseki In PDP The state assembly has been caught in the middle of the political fight between the state governor, Godwin Obaseki and a former national chairman of the APC,  Adam’s Oshiomhole. The governor’s defection to the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) from the ruling APC has further aggravated tensions in the state house of assembly. READ ALSO: Obaseki Joins PDP, Eyes Governorship Ticket The impeached deputy speaker, Idiaye had reportedly endorsed the governorship candidate of the APC, Osagie Ize-Iyamu against Obaseki who had initially been elected under the platform of the APC but is now the PDP candidate. A joint security team of Nigerian soldiers and police officers harassed and arrested over 40 #RevolutionNow at Unity Fountain Abuja on Wednesday. Omoyele Sowore, the publisher of Sahara Reporters, is the convener of the protest tagged “national day of action”, held in major cities of the country in commemoration of the first anniversary of the #RevolutionNow Movement held on August 5, 2019. READ ALSO: DSS rearrests Omoyele Sowore #RevolutionNow protesters are calling on the federal government to tackle issues borders on insecurity and poverty in the country. In a series of tweet on Wednesday, Sowore shared pictures and videos of how protesters were arrested and harassed by security operatives. “@PoliceNG stops #RevolutionNow protesters on Third mainland bridge, they’re forcing them to the station in violation of their rights!. READ ALSO: Finally, DSS Releases Sowore As Nigerians React “For hours now ⁦@PoliceNG⁩ officers have held these #RevolutionNow protesters to ransom on a bridge in Lagos. They’ve even brought in more reinforcements planning to corral them to a detention facility at Panti, Yaba, Lagos. This is what Nigeria has turned into, a Banana Rep, Sowore said. Pictures and videos of #RevolutionNow protest flooded the internet, while the protest trended on Twitter on Wednesday. Last year, Sowore was arrested and detained for four months by the State Security Service for planning #RevolutionNow protest.