The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has fined Nigeria Info 95.1 FM station N5m over an interview it aired on Monday with a former presidential candidate, Obadiah Mailafia who accused an unnamed northern governor of being the commander Boko Haram. Mailafia who ran for president under the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), in the interview had also accused the federal government and government of Kaduna of having a hand in the killings in Southern Kaduna. READ ALSO: Northern Governor Commander Of Boko Haram – Mailafia Obadiah On Wednesday, he was summoned by the State Security Services in Jos, Plateau State and questioned for about six hours before being released. Mailafia would later refuse to recant his allegations that a northern governor was a commander of Boko Haram. NBC, explaining why the station was fined in a statement on Thursday, said it provided Mailafia a platform to promote unverifiable and inciting views that could encourage or incite to crime and lead to public disorder. NBC said,“No broadcast shall encourage or incite to crime, lead to public disorder or hate, be repugnant to public feelings or contain offensive reference to any person or organization, alive or dead or generally be disrespectful to human dignity.” READ ALSO: DSS Invites Mailafia For Saying Northern Governor Is Boko Haram Commander “Broadcasting shall promote human dignity, therefore, hate speech is prohibited.Consequent on these provisions and in line with the amendment of the 6th edition of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code, Nigeria Info 99.3FM Lagos, has been fined the sum of N5,000,000.00 (Five Million Naira), only.’ The regulatory agency said, “This is expected to serve as a deterrent to all other broadcast stations in Nigeria who are quick to provide platform for subversive rhetoric and the expositions of spurious and unverifiable claims, to desist from such. “The commission wishes to put it on record that it will not hesitate to suspend the Broadcast Licence of broadcast stations that continue to breach the Code. Stations are, by this statement, admonished to desist forthwith, from airing unwholesome content, or be ready to face appropriate sanctions.” The University of Lagos (UNILAG) Governing Council has appointed Prof. Theophilus Soyombo of the Faculty of Social Sciences as Acting Vice Chancellor of the university. This followed the removal of the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe on Wednesday at the Council’s meeting held in Abuja. Chairman of the Governing Council,  Dr. Wale Babalakin had during the meeting pushed members to votes the the VC’s removal after asking both the VC and his deputy to leave the meeting. Registrar of Unilag, Oladejo Azeez, would later issue a statement announcing the removal of Ogundipe over allegations of misconduct and abuse of office. READ ALSO: Governing Council Sacks UNILAG VC, Professor Ogundipe Azeez, also the secretary to the Governing Council announced the appointment of Soyombo in a statement insisting the removal of Ogundipe was legal. He said, “I also wish to use the opportunity to inform members of the public that Council at the said meeting duly appointed Professor of the Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Lagos as Vice Chancellor of the University in an Acting Capacity,” the university’s registrar and council secretary.” Ogundipe had in his own statement described his removal as an illegality that did not follow the process for the removal of a Vice Chancellor for either misconduct or inability as laid down in Section 17 of the University of Lagos Act. However Azeez noted the Council decided on Soyombo, who is of the Faculty of Social Sciences at the same meeting where Ogundipe was removed.