President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the payment of fees and stipends of stranded students who are on scholarships of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The NDDC in a statement by the director of of Corporate Affairs, Charles Odili said the president gave the order  to  the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. READ ALSO: Nigerian Students Now Beggars In UK, Abike Dabiri Calls Out NDDC Over Unpaid Fees Students, he said, would be paid by the end of the week adding that the delay was due to the sudden death of Chief Ibanga Etang, the Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration, EDFA, of the Commission earlier in May. He said, “Under the Commission’s finance protocol, only the Executive Director (Finance) and the Executive Director (Projects) can sign for the release of funds from the Commission’s domiciliary accounts with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). READ ALSO: NDDC Corruption Saga: Senator Adeyemi Calls For Adoption Of Sharia, Mosaic Laws “With the death of Chief Etang, the remittance has to await the appointment of a new EDFA. Senator Akpabio, the Honourable Minister, said President Buhari who has been briefed on the protest by students at the Nigerian High Commission in London, has ordered that all stops be pulled to pay the students by the end of this week. We expect a new EDFA to be appointed this week. As soon as that is done, they would all be paid.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on Monday reported 288 new cases of COVID-19 infections, the lowest since June 7, 2020 when 260 new cases were reported. The NCDC also reported eight new deaths from COVID-19 complications taking the total death toll in the country to 896. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records Lowest New Cases Of COVID-19 In Months There are 44,129 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease in the country, 22,570 of them still active. 20,663 pstients have been discharged. According to NCDC, 287,532 samples have so far been tested across the country for the disease. In the Monday update, Lagos reported the highest number of new cases with 88, followed by Kwara, which had 33 cases.
Osun reported the third highest with 27. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s New COVID-19 Daily Cases Drop The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Enugu State had 25 cases each, while Abia State had 20. In Kaduna State, there were 17 cases, 13 each in Plateau and Rivers states, 10 in Delta State, eight in Gombe State, four in Ogun State, three in Oyo State and one each in Katsina and Bauchi states.