A joint security team of Nigerian soldiers and police officers harassed and arrested over 40 #RevolutionNow at Unity Fountain Abuja on Wednesday. Omoyele Sowore, the publisher of Sahara Reporters, is the convener of the protest tagged “national day of action”, held in major cities of the country in commemoration of the first anniversary of the #RevolutionNow Movement held on August 5, 2019. READ ALSO: DSS rearrests Omoyele Sowore #RevolutionNow protesters are calling on the federal government to tackle issues borders on insecurity and poverty in the country. In a series of tweet on Wednesday, Sowore shared pictures and videos of how protesters were arrested and harassed by security operatives. “@PoliceNG stops #RevolutionNow protesters on Third mainland bridge, they’re forcing them to the station in violation of their rights!. READ ALSO: Finally, DSS Releases Sowore As Nigerians React “For hours now ⁦@PoliceNG⁩ officers have held these #RevolutionNow protesters to ransom on a bridge in Lagos. They’ve even brought in more reinforcements planning to corral them to a detention facility at Panti, Yaba, Lagos. This is what Nigeria has turned into, a Banana Rep, Sowore said. Pictures and videos of #RevolutionNow protest flooded the internet, while the protest trended on Twitter on Wednesday. Last year, Sowore was arrested and detained for four months by the State Security Service for planning #RevolutionNow protest. The Presidential candidate of the Young Progressive Party (YPP) in the 2019 elections, Kingsley Moghalu, haa denied media reports that he joined the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He however admitted in a statement on Wednesday that he had left the YPP. READ ALSO: Election Result Reflects Mindset of Nigerians – Kingsley Moghalu Moghalu said his attention had been drawn to a news story published by an online news medium, which he described as the false and misleading headline; “Kingsley Moghalu has Joined APC – Anambra Spokesman”. He said, “This headline, and the claim on which the report is based, is false, mischievous, and tendentious. In late 2019 I resigned my membership of the Young Progressives Party, the party platform on which I was a presidential candidate in the 2019 elections, but I did not subsequently join, and have not joined, any other political party. READ ALSO: Cuddling Boko Haram Insurgents ‘Is State Failure’ – Moghalu “I am therefore NOT a member of ANY political party in Nigeria today. The article by Elombah News is doubly mischievous because, despite my denying this false claim when the online news outlet contacted me, Elombah News nevertheless went ahead to publish the story with this mischievous and misleading headline with no evidence to back it up, while burying my comment debunking the false claim deep inside its story.” Describing the news as irresponsible journalism, he said, “I ask the public to disregard this fake news report, and to be guided by this clarification.”