Senator Kashamu Buruji, who represented Ogun easy senatorial district in the Senate between 2015 and 2019, is dead. The late senator was the PDP governorship candidate in the 2019 election and ran with former presidential spokesman Reuben Abati as his running mate. Senator Ben Bruce who also served in the Senate representing Bayelsa posted a condolence message on his Twitter handle. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Former Oyo Governor, Ajimobi Is Dead Senator Bruce’s tweet read, “Buruji I have just lost my good friend of forever to #COVID19. Until his death, Sen. Buruji Kashamu and I were inseparable. He died today at First Cardiology Consultants, in Lagos. May his gentle soul rest in peace. I pray his family and loved ones the fortitude to bear this heavy loss.” Buruji turned 62 on May 19 and was reported to have died from complications due to COVID-19. There are reports that he had been on life support for several weeks. READ ALSO: President Buhari’s Chief Of Staff Abba Kyari Dies Of COVID-19 He died in the same hospital where former Oyo Governor, Abiola Ajimobi and Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari died. For over a decade, the Nigeria government has been in a legal battle to extradite him to the United States of America, where he was facing criminal charges relating to drug trafficking. The National leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has reacted to unfolding political development development in Edo State, saying Godwin Obaseki’s conduct in the past year was undoubtedly impeachable. Following the removal of Edo State House of Assembly complex roof in an attempt to prevent possible impeachment of the incumbent governor Godwin Obaseki, Tinubu, in a statement shared via his twitter handle on Friday, said Obaseki had “resorted to strong-arm tactics of dictators.” He said “Although Governor Obaseki’s conduct in the past year is undoubtedly impeachable, legislators who were denied access into the state assembly compex have made no threat to impeach the Governor. Their only desire is to peacefully perform the duties asked of them by the constituents who elected them. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Nigerians Should Hold APC Responsible For Any Election Violence – Wike “Not satisfied with making a mockery of our constitution by blocking the timely inauguration of two-thirds of the elected members of the Edo State House of Assembly, Governor Obaseki has now resorted to the strong-arm tactics of dictators. “First, he sponsors hoodlums to deface, indeed destroy, parts of the House of Assembly Building in Benin, feigning the building is undergoing renovation. Then, he imports sand and gravels to prevent access to the assembly complex. “In effect, the man has spent state funds to thwart the very apparatus of the state government he was sworn to uphold. He has squandered public money to defeat the very will of the public. This is tragic beyond words. Tinubu who stated that Obaseki’s action was a threat to Nigeria’s democracy described it as a cowardly act and a move to thwart representative democracy in Edo State. He added, “Governor Obaseki’s governance of Edo State recalls the worst excesses of our military past and represents a direct threat to the democratic order. By his refusal to permit duly elected members of the Edo State House of Assembly to perform their constitutional duties. READ ALSO: Edo House Of Assembly Roof Stripped Off After Dramatic Impeachment “Governor Obaseki betrayed contempt for the people of his state and, unfortunately, his ignorance of Nigeria’s constitutional order. As a Governor he ought to know better than to obstruct the functioning of his own legislature, but perhaps he is in need of a quick lesson. “Indeed, it is no coincidence that of the three arms of government, the powers of the legislature are enumerated first, in our Constitution. The legislature is the authority imbued with the power to make laws for the peace, order and good governance of the federation and states “Indeed, the Constitution makes clear that a Governor’s role primarily extends to the maintenance and implementation of the laws set down for him by his state’s legislature. READ ALSO: Edo Poll: Avoid Zamfara, Rivers Pitfalls, Buhari Warns APC Leaders “The rule of law and preservation of democracy is too important to sacrifice at the altar of any one man’s ambition. Governor Obaseki’s woeful leadership of Edo State will hopefully be brought to an end soon by the very people whose rights he has so carelessly trampled upon”.