The Federal Government has announced that international are expected to resume in a matter of weeks after more than four months of suspension due to the coronavirus. This was revealed by the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, on Thursday the COVID-19 of the Presidential Task Force. While not giving a specific date, the minister stated that he would like flights to resume as soon as possible, saying thousands of jobs had already been lost due to the pandemic. READ ALSO: International Flights May Resume Before October – Hadi Sirika The National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Sani Aliyu, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, and other agencies, as well as airlines, should commence the process for the resumption of international flights. He said, “Specific to air transportation, as you are aware, domestic flights have already resumed, the railway sector has also restarted. For international travel, we have made recommendations to the aviation industry to commence the process for reopening international airports provided all existing international and local Covid-19 protocol are in place. READ ALSO: Nigeria Suspends All International Flights “We have modified the protocol for passenger arrivals at the airports. Domestic passengers arriving at the airports are advised to arrive one hour before their flights and three hours before international flights – when this restarts.” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has introduced a dedicated public portal, the INEC Result Viewing (IReV), that will enable Nigerians view Polling Unit results real time as the voting ends on Election Day. INEC says it will use this public portal for the Nasarawa Central State Constituency bye election in Nasarawa State scheduled for Saturday August 8, 2020, as well as the Edo and Ondo Governorship elections and all subsequent elections, Festus Okoye, National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, announced in a statement on Thursday. READ ALSO: INEC Deregisters 74 Political Parties Ahead 2023 Elections Okoye said INEC was aware that result management had remained a major source of mistrust in our electoral process and that the introduction of public port for viewing results was to further strengthen its election management process and enhance transparency of the system. “INEC is determined to address any source of this concern through enhancing the level of transparency in the conduct of elections, more so in the process of releasing results of elections. “It is a fundamental principle of democracy that in elections, votes are not only correctly counted, but that they also count. Consistent with its commitment to transparency in election management, the Commission introduced the Form EC60E, which is a poster version of the primary result sheet, the Form EC8A. READ ALSO: Court Stops INEC From Deregistering 31 Political Parties “This replica of the polling unit result is pasted at the Polling Unit after votes are counted, recorded and announced. This poster, now widely known as the “People’s Form EC8A”, has increased transparency in result management. “The form enables the citizens to photograph the results and project the outcome of elections, even before the final results are announced. Unfortunately, this has also led to abuses, as unofficial and at times false results are known to have been circulated, particularly via social media, leading to tension and casting aspersions on the final outcome of elections. “To further strengthen the transparency in the election result management system, the Commission has decided to introduce a dedicated public portal, the INEC RESULT VIEWING (IReV), that will enable Nigerians to view Polling Unit results real time as the voting ends on Election Day”, Okoye said. READ ALSO: INEC To Adopt Guidelines For Resumption On May 7 He added that this innovation didn’t constitute electronic collation of results. Rather, he said the collation of election results would remain as provided for by law, a manual process of completion of relevant result sheets and their upwards collation until the final results are determined. “The Commission hopes that this innovation would improve the transparency in election result management and therefore further consolidate public confidence in the electoral process,” Okoye said.