President Muhammad Buhari on Saturday congratulated newly elected president of the Nigerian Bar Association, Olumide Akpata. Akpata, 47, emerged as the NBA president election on Friday, polling 9,891 votes to defeat Babatunde Ajibade who had 4,328 votes and Dele Adesina who polled 3,982 votes, in the election. Congratulating Akpata on his electoral victory in a statement signed by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President On Media and Publicity on Saturday, Buhari wished him every success in the new position of leading Nigerian lawyers to chart a path of professional development and fulfilment. “I congratulate Olumide Akpata on his election as the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), a crucial stakeholder in our democracy. “I wish him every success in the new position, and assure the new leadership of the continued cooperation of our administration”, Buhari said, He added that he trusted that Mr. Akpata’s vast knowledge and experience in litigation, corporate world and engaging with government at different levels, would greatly benefit the Bar and indeed all Nigerians, who look up to the learned fellows as crucial stakeholders in a modern democracy.” President Buhari also assured the new leadership of the NBA of the continued cooperation of his administration in addressing the broad range of challenges and opportunities facing the legal profession and the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Friday reported 462 new cases of COVID-19, with the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) accounting for 93 of the cases. READ ALSO: FCT Records 100 New Cases Of COVID-19 It makes the second day running at which the capital city reported more new cases than Lagos. It recorded 96 new cases on Thursday. On Friday, the NCDC reported only one death, while 295 patients were discharged. Nigeria now has a total of 43,151 confirmed, 19,565 patients discharged and 879 recorded deaths. Lagos State, had the second highest number of new cases with 78. Plateau State recorded 64 new cases, Kaduna State had 54 and had Oyo State 47. READ ALSO: FCTA Health Secretary Tests Positive For COVID-19 In Ondo State, there were 32 new cases,  23 in Adamawa State, 19 in Bauchi State, nine each in Rivers, Ogun and Delta states, while Edo State had seven. Kano and Enugu states each had six new cases, Nasarawa State reported five and Osun State had one.