Lagos State, which has remained the epicentre of the Coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria has reported its lowest number of new cases since the early days of the outbreak with only 17 cases. And for the second day, Plateau State on Wednesday reported more new cases than any other state with 60 cases. WATCH ALSO: The Bright Side Of COVID-19 – Improved Customer Service In Nigeria The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reported 221 new cases of COVID-19, the lowest since May 28, when 182 cases of the Coronavirus disease were reported. READ ALSO: Africa’ll Defeat COVID-19, Like Polio – Buhari Nigeria now has 53,021 confirmed cases of the disease, a total of 40,281 discharged patients and 1,010 reported deaths. 33 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), 26 in Kaduna State, 18 in Rivers State, and nine each in Enugu, Kwara and Ondo states. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Akin Abayomi, Lagos Health Commissioner Contracts COVID-19 There six cases in Nasarawa State, five each in Gombe and Anambra states, four each in Delta and Abia states, three in Imo State. WATCH ALSO: The Bright Side Of COVID-19 Pandemic – Part 2 Edo, Ogun, Oyo and Osun states all had two cases each, while Bauchi and Kano states each had one new case of  COVID-19. The National Examinations Council (NECO) has blamed schools for the students missing out in their exams, saying it gave adequate notice and even extended the registration deadline for the ongoing Basic Education Certificate Examination for JSS3 students. In a statement on Wednesday, Azeez Sani, the Head of Information and Public Relations at NECO reacted to complaints by some schools whose candidates are unable to sit for the on-going Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) that commenced on Monday, 24th August 2020. READ ALSO: WASSCE: If You Can Hold Elections, Students Can Take Exams – OpenFees Tells FG He said, “NECO wishes to state that adequate opportunity was provided well in advance for all schools to register their candidates. This was given that some schools and/or candidates may have faced difficulties in the course of the registrations. “Due largely to this and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Council extended the duration for registration to 12 midnight of Friday, 21st August 2020. The extension was widely publicized through various platforms. The aim was largely to accommodate late registration.” READ ALSO: Secondary Schools To Reopen August 4 Sani said, “It is regrettable that despite these measures, some schools failed to complete the registration or enrollment processes. It is therefore instructive to restate that the closure of the Portal on the said date was not punitive or designed to undermine registrants and schools. It was however to allow the Council produce and distribute materials to Examination Centers for seamless conduct of the exercise. “Consequently, NECO assures the public of its commitment to effective and efficient conduct of all examinations within its statutory mandates. In this regard, it will continue to engage all stakeholders as may be appropriate.”