Obadiah Mailafia, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, who on Monday said he hear from repentant terrorists that a northern governor is the commander of Boko Haram  has changed his story. In an interview with BBC Hausa Service on Thursday, Mailafia said he got the information of the Boko Haram Haram commander governor from Fulani Traders in the market. READ ALSO: Northern Governor Commander Of Boko Haram – Mailafia Obadiah Mailafia told the BBC he had given the SSS all the information at his disposal and apologised, promising to not repeat the allegation. He also said, he was unaware his controversial comments were recorded even though the radio station that aired them regularly posts video clips of its interviews on its website. Mailafia made the initial claim during an interview with Nigeria Info 99.3 FM station. He was later summoned by the State Security Service in Jos, Plateau State, where he was questioned for several hours. READ ALSO: Boko Haram Interview: Mailafia Out To Cause Mischief, Incite People – SSS Emerging from the SSS office in Jos, Mailafia, a former presidential candidate under the African Democratic Congress, said he stood by the claims. READ ALSO: NBC Fines Nigeria Info N5m Over Mailafia Interview A statement from the SSS on Friday, however said Mailafia had apologised profusely for the comments he made about a governor being a Boko Haram commander. The State Security Service (SSS) has castigated former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Obadiah Mailafia for claiming that a sitting governor of a northern state is the commander of Boko Haram in Nigeria. Mailafia made the comments in an interview with Nigeria Info Fm station on Monday. He was later questioned by the SSS on Wednesday for several hours, while the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) imposed a N5m fine on the radio station for providing its platform to engage in hate speech. Media and civil society groups have however condemned the N5M fine imposed on the station as a threat to freedom of speech. READ ALSO: SSS Invites Mailafia For Saying Northern Governor Is Boko Haram Commander In a statement on Friday, the spokesman of the SSS, Dr. Peter Afunanya suggested that Mailafia set out to make mischief and incite people considering that he had access to security agencies before divulging what the SSS described as fake news. The agency, in the statement said, “Mailafiya, as a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and currently, a Directing Staff at Nigeria’s foremost Policy Research Institute, the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, has unhindered access to government platforms. READ ALSO: Northern Governor Commander Of Boko Haram – Mailafia Obadiah “It is expected that he should be conversant with official information management protocols. But regrettably, he chose to cross the lines of decorum and conduct expected of a personality of his status.” Afunanya said, “It is disappointing that he never took advantage of these to reach any of the security or related agencies to share the so called information at his disposal. This, he has agreed to be a grievous error on his part. “It, however, suggests his mischief and determination to use the fake news he spewed to incite the people under his control. READ ALSO: NBC Fines Nigeria Info N5m Over Mailafia Interview “It is even more condemnable that Mailafiya, who had profusely apologized during his visit to the Service’s Plateau State Command for his ignoble statement, would, afterwards, announce to the world that he stood by his misguided eruption.”