Governor Nasir of Kaduna State has said that he was not the one that approached the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) to speak during its forthcoming Annual General Conference (AGC). The governor was reacting to the news that the National Executive Committee of the NBA had withdrawn the invitation of the association to him to speak at its Annual General Conference coming up later this month. The decision to withdraw the invitation followed a petition against the governor by the Open Bar Initiative, which accused him of intolerance towards lawyers and the legal profession. The petition was written to the chairman of the Technical Committee on Conference Planning, Prof. Koyinsola Ajaji, earlier this week. However, the governor in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye, stated that he accepted as part of his commitment to having a national conversation and the evolution of a national consensus, when lawyer friends approached him. READ ALSO: NBA Withdraws El-Rufai’s Conference Invitation He also noted that while the decision about who speaks at its event was clearly the NBA’s, the governor said he was not agitated that he had one less speaking engagement. El-Rufai went ahead express his displeasure over what he labelled the NBA leadership’s signal of “an unfortunate embrace of injustice, unfairness, absence of fair hearing and total disregard for the rule of law.” “That a professional organisation has elected to endorse a one-sided narrative on a profound national issue is something that its members may wish to reflect upon. “For an association, whose bread and butter is about justice to make a ruling based on the stridency of people who lampoon judicial processes against certain individuals without hearing the other side is odd. “It bears noting that in its response to pressure, the NBA leadership has signaled an unfortunate embrace of injustice, unfairness, absence of fair hearing and total disregard for the rule of law,” he said. He also hinted that he would be taking action over what he termed ‘defamatory statements’ in the petition that sought his disqualification for the event. Seven more people in Nigeria have died from COVID-19 according to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Giving an update on the number of COVID-19 cases on Thursday, the NCDC put the total death toll in the country at 992. The NCDC also reported 476 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 265 more patients discharged from hospital. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Cases In Nigeria Reach 50,488 There are now 50,964 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria and a total of 37,569 patients that have so far been discharged. Lagos State reported the highest number of new infections with 235 cases, followed by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), which reported 44 cases. Kaduna State recorded 41 new cases, Borno State had 33, Plateau State had 28, Abia and Edo states had 13 each, while Rivers State had 12. WATCH ALSO: The Bright Side of COVID-19 – Improved Customer Service in Nigeria In Imo State, there were 11 new cases, 10 in Oyo State, nine in Kano State, seven in Kwara State, five each in Enugu and Katsina states, four each in Gombe and Ogun states, and one each in Nasarawa and Zamfara states.