Olusegun Obasanjo, Nigerian former president, has described the death of Senator Buruji Kashamu, as a lesson for those still alive. The senator who was the gubernatorial candidate of the People’s Democratic Party in the 2019 general elections died on Saturday in Lagos from COVID-19 complications. Obasanjo who was reacting to his death in a condolence message to the Ogun State government recalled that the late politician had been wanted by the United States government for alleged offences related to drug trafficking but managed to evade all extradition attempts. READ ALSO: Senator Kashamu Buruji Is Dead He wrote, “Senator Esho Jinadu (Buruji Kashmu) in his lifetime used the maneuver of law and politics to escape from facing justice on alleged criminal offence in Nigeria and outside Nigeria,” the former president said. “But no legal, political, cultural, social or even medical maneuver could stop the cold hands of death when the Creator of all of us decides that the time is up. Praying to the Almighty to forgive the late Kashamu his sins, Obasanjo added, “May Allah forgive his sin and accept his soul into Aljanah, and may God grant his family and friends fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday reported 453 new cases of COVID-19 infections and six more deaths in the country. Nigeria now has 46,140 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease with 33,044 patients discharged from hospital and
942 deaths recorded. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported the highest number of new cases with 75 infections, followed by Lagos, which had 71 new cases. Benue State had 53 new cases, Delta State reported 39, Borno State reported 30, Enugu State reported 25, Plateau State reported 24 and Osun State had 20 new cases. In Abia State, there were 19 new cases, 17 in Osun State, 16 in Kaduna State, 13 each in Kano and Ebonyi states, nine in Ogun State, seven in Kwara State and six in Ondo State. Gombe State reported three new cases, Ekiti State had two, and Akwa Ibom and Rivers states  had one each.