The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on Saturday recorded 130 new cases of COVID-19, twice the 65 that were reported in Lagos. For three straight days, the FCT has reported more cases than Lagos, which for five months had consistently reported more new cases than any state and only occasionally displaced by another state. The 130 new cases in the FCT also represent close to a third of the 386 new cases of COVID-19 reported in the whole country by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). READ ALSO: For Second Day, Abuja Records Highest Number Of COVID-19 Cases The NCDC Saturday update however showed the lowest number of new cases the country has recorded in sever months. The update also showed that five new deaths were recorded while 817 patients were discharge from treatment and isolation centres. READ ALSO: FCTA Health Secretary Tests Positive For COVID-19 Nigeria now has a total of 43,537 confirmed, 20,087 discharged patients and 883 recorded deaths. The number of new infections in Ondo was put 37 in the NCDC update. Osun had 29 new cases, Plateau had 23, while Rivers had 15. READ ALSO: FCT Records 100 New Cases Of COVID-19 In Enugu State, there were 14 new cases, 12 in Nasarawa State, 11 each in Bayelsa and Ebonyi states, and nine in Ekiti State. Oyo and Edo states had eight new cases each, Abia State had six, Ogun and Katsina states had three each, while Imo and Adamawa states had one each. The Presidency said on Saturday that the recent views expressed by President Muhammadu Buhari’s nephew, Mamman Daura, about 2023 Presidency were his and not Buhari’s. It noted that at 80 years of age, Daura was capable of holding an opinion of his own on issues bordering on the development of Nigeria. Daura, perceived to be one of the most influential powers behind the Buhari Presidency, had in a recent interview, said rotational presidency was no longer necessary. He argued that what Nigeria needed ahead of the 2023 poll, was someone with competence and the requisite qualifications, irrespective of his geographical or other leanings. Daura spoke in an interview with the Hausa Service of the British Broadcasting Corporation. Incidentally, power is expected to rotate to the South of the country in 2023, in line with the ‘understanding’ reached between the North and South that power should rotate among them every eight years. The understanding is not constitutional and it’s not backed by any law, though it has been observed since 1999. But, Daura, in the interview, said Nigeria should jettison rotation for competence and qualifications in picking a candidate for 2023. Being Buhari’s nephew, some commentators, groups and critics immediately suggested that he spoke the President’s mind and lampooned him seriously for it. Reacting to the interview and the controversy it generated across the country, the Presidency stated that Daura spoke for himself. The Presidency’s reaction, released by Buhari’s spokesman, Mr Garba Shehu, is reproduced below: “We have received numerous requests for comments on the interview granted by Malam Mamman Daura, President Muhammadu Buhari’s nephew to the BBC Hausa Service. “It is important that we state from the onset that as mentioned by the interviewee, the views expressed were personal to him and did not, in any way, reflect that of either the President or his administration. “At age 80, and having served as editor and managing director of one of this country’s most influential newspapers, the New Nigerian, certainly, Malam Mamman qualifies as an elder statesman with a national duty to hold perspectives and disseminate them as guaranteed under our constitution and  laws of the land. He does not need the permission or clearance of anyone to exercise this right. “In an attempt to circulate the content of the interview to a wider audience, the English translation clearly did no justice to the interview, which was granted in Hausa, and as a result, the context was mixed up and new meanings were introduced and/or not properly articulated. “The issues discussed during the interview, centred around themes on how the country could birth an appropriate process of political dialogue, leading to an evaluation, assessment and a democratic outcome that would serve the best interest of the average Nigerian irrespective of where they come from. These issues remain at the heart of our evolving and young democracy, and as a veteran journalist, scholar and statesman, Malam Mamman has seen enough to add his voice to those of many other participants.”