The National Bureau of Statistics has released economic data covering the period when a number of states, including Lagos the commercial capital were under a lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the data published by NBS on its website, the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) decreased by 6.10 per cent(year-on-year) in real terms in the second quarter of 2020, ending the three-year trend of low but positive real growth rates recorded since the 2016/17 recession. Nigeria would officially be in economic recession if it again reports negative economic growth in the third quarter. NBS said, “The decline was largely attributable to significantly lower levels of both domestic and international economic activity during the quarter, which resulted from nationwide shutdown efforts aimed at containing the COVID-19 pandemic. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Plunges UK Into Biggest Recession Ever “The domestic efforts ranged from initial restrictions of human and vehicular movement implemented in only a few states to a nationwide curfew, bans on domestic and international travel, closure of schools and markets etc., affecting both local and international trade.” The bureau said, “The efforts, led by both the Federal and State governments, evolved over the course of the quarter and persisted throughout. READ ALSO: Nigerian Economy Should Be Growing At 12% – Odilim Enwegbara “When compared with Q2 2019, which recorded a growth of 2.12%, the Q2 2020 growth rate indicates a drop of –8.22% points, and a fall of –7.97% points when compared to the first quarter of 2020 (1.87%).” Consequently, it said, “For the first half of 2020, real GDP declined by –2.18% year on year, compared with 2.11% recorded in the first half of 2019. Quarter on quarter, real GDP decreased by –5.04%. Furthermore, only 13 activities recorded positive real growth compared to 30 in the preceding quarter.” The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi, has tested positive for COVID-19. This was disclosed by the state’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, in a statement on Monday. Omotoso stated that Abayomi tested positive to the virus after being unknowingly exposed to already compromised people who were unwell. READ ALSO: Each COVID-19 Severe Case May Gulp N1m Daily – Lagos Government He said, “Subsequent to close contact with persons feeling unwell and testing positive for the COVID-19 infection, the Honorable Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has tested positive for the virus.” The commissioner further disclosed that Abayomi got to know of his status following the required testing protocol of contact tracing procedures. READ ALSO: Another COVID-19 Patient Dies In Lagos He added, “However, he is doing well with no symptoms. Adhering to the protocol of the homebased strategy in Lagos State, the Honorable Commissioner will be isolating in his home for the next 14 days but will continue to discharge his duties both as the Deputy Incident Commander of the Incident Command System for COVID-19 and most especially, as the Honorable Commissioner for Health. “Our prayers are with him and his family during his period of isolation.”