The Governing Council of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) has approved the election Professor Folasade Ogunsola as Acting Vice Chancellor of the university. The university has been in crisis since the sacking of the Vice Chancellor, Oluwatoyin Ogundipe by the Wale Babalakin led Governing Council. READ ALSO: UNILAG Senate Elects Folasade Ogunsola As First Female VC President Muhammadu Buhari would later suspend both Babalakin and Ogundipe, appointing John Momoh as acting chairman of the Governing Council and asking the senate of the University to appoint an acting Vice-Chancellor. The senate on Monday elected Ogunsola as acting VC and on Tuesday, August 25, 2020, the Council, sitting in an emergency meeting after Momoh’s appointment ratified her election  as acting VC. READ ALSO: Buhari Suspends UNILAG Pro-Chancellor, Wale Babalakin The meeting which was held virtually was the first to be chaired by Momoh, who is also the chairman and chief executive of Channels Television. President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed John Momoh, the chairman of Channels Television, as acting chairman of the Governing Council of the University of Lagos. The appointment followed the suspension of Dr. Wale Babalakin as chairman of the Governing Council by the president last week. READ ALSO: UNILAG Senate Elects Folasade Ogunsola As First Female VC The president also suspended the Vice Chancellor of the university,  Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, who had previously been sacked by the Babalakin led Council and set up a visitation panel to investigate the crisis in the institution. Momoh was also reportedly appointed last week in an August 21, 2020 letter addressed to him from the Ministry of Education. READ ALSO: Buhari Suspends UNILAG Pro-Chancellor, Wale Babalakin In the letter, the new chairman was asked to convene the Council and consider approving the new acting Vice Chancellor of the university elected by its senate. The letter asked Momoh to submit “a report on the decision of the council to the visitor through the honourable minister of education immediately thereafter.”