The University of Lagos (UNILAG) Governing Council has appointed Prof. Theophilus Soyombo of the Faculty of Social Sciences as Acting Vice Chancellor of the university. This followed the removal of the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe on Wednesday at the Council’s meeting held in Abuja. Chairman of the Governing Council,  Dr. Wale Babalakin had during the meeting pushed members to votes the the VC’s removal after asking both the VC and his deputy to leave the meeting. Registrar of Unilag, Oladejo Azeez, would later issue a statement announcing the removal of Ogundipe over allegations of misconduct and abuse of office. READ ALSO: Governing Council Sacks UNILAG VC, Professor Ogundipe Azeez, also the secretary to the Governing Council announced the appointment of Soyombo in a statement insisting the removal of Ogundipe was legal. He said, “I also wish to use the opportunity to inform members of the public that Council at the said meeting duly appointed Professor of the Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Lagos as Vice Chancellor of the University in an Acting Capacity,” the university’s registrar and council secretary.” Ogundipe had in his own statement described his removal as an illegality that did not follow the process for the removal of a Vice Chancellor for either misconduct or inability as laid down in Section 17 of the University of Lagos Act. However Azeez noted the Council decided on Soyombo, who is of the Faculty of Social Sciences at the same meeting where Ogundipe was removed. Former governor of Imo, Ikedi Ohakim, has denied defrauding a businesswoman, Chinyere Amuchinwa, N500m in cash and goods, and has instead described her petition to the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu as blackmail. Ohakim, in a statement by his political adviser, Emmanuel Chukwu said, “The allegations are, to say the least, most ludicrous and laughable. They all together constitute an elaborate and audacious scheme by Ms Amuchinwa (currently a criminal suspect) to blackmail, extort and otherwise defame the person of Dr Ohakim. Refering to a story on Thisday, which first published details of the petition against him, Ohakim said, “Ms Amuchinwa presented herself as “businesswoman”, but did not state the nature of her enterprise and her business address, if any. “And to be sure, Ms Amuchinwa had filed this Counter-Petition as an afterthought to an ongoing investigation of her criminal conducts towards Dr Ohakim, based on a Petition Dr Ohakim had filed against her and upon which she was arrested as far back as 20th January, 2020, seven clear months before she was recruited to file her false Petition. We are fully aware of her nefarious sponsors.” He said, “Second, in purporting to have supplied luxury goods worth N110m to Dr Ohakim, she did not state the exact nature of these goods, evidence of request for the goods, acknowledgment receipt and the address of transaction. And why would her fake invoices be in foreign currency, especially in Euros when she does not have any shop in Europe? “Third, in claiming to have made N500m payment to Dr Ohakim for purchase of land, she dishonestly left out whether such was made through the banking system. As of a fact, if such payment ever existed, it is very easy to track money trail through the banking system.” The former governor asked if she made the payment in cash, foreign currency or any other form. He said, “Even at that, N500m is certainly a huge sum, so she certainly would require a large bullion van making multiple trips to convey such quantum cash.” Fourth, Ohakim said, “Ms Amuchinwa’s Petition constitutes a disingenuous lie concocted from the pit of hell. Dr Ohakim will therefore go to any length and vigorously prove his innocence and ensure that an unconscionable blackmailer/defamer is brought to justice alongside her enablers and co-conspirators. “If she had gotten away with blackmail in the past, now she has met her waterloo. As the sages say: ‘To be toss is nothing but to be safely toss’. In the coming days, the world and Ms Amuchinwa would be hearing more from Dr Ohakim on this matter.”