The Nigerian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, has tested negative to COVID-19 after being in isolation for more than three weeks. The minister had on July 19, disclosed that his fourth COVID-19 test had come back positive, after having three previous negative results. READ ALSO: Foreign Affairs Minister, Onyeama Tests Positive For COVID-19 He also stated that he was proceeding to isolation in a medical facility. However, on Wednesday the minister announced through his verified twitter page that he had been declared COVID-19 free. “By the very special grace of God, my latest COVID-19 test result came back negative after three weeks isolation,” he wrote. READ ALSO: President Buhari Wishes Geoffrey Onyeama Speedy Recovery Onyeama went on to express his gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari and others for their support while he battled the virus. He stated, “I am eternally grateful to my family, the C-in-C and VP, the medical team, relations, friends, colleagues, religious leaders and numerous well-wishers, who through their care, prayers, fasting, messages of support and encouragement never let me walk alone.” The Minister of Communications and the Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami has said his ministry has executed 500 projects in the last five years. All of the projects, he said were part of the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari to promote national security, diversify the economy and fight corruption. He spoke on Tuesday during the virtual launch from Abuja of 11 new projects executed by at least six agencies under the supervision of his ministry. READ ALSO: NCC Opens Emergency Communications Centres In Ilorin And Calabar The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), projects that were commissioned virtually by the Minister include the Emergency Communication Centres (ECC’s) in Ilorin, Kwara and Calabar, Cross River. Also built and commissioned by NCC were the e-Health/Data Sharing Centre, Medical College, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi; and Virtual  Examination Centre, University of Maiduguri, Borno. The Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF), another agency of the ministry executed projects including the Tertiary Institution Knowledge Centre (TIKC), Delta and School Knowledge Centre (SKC) located at Government Day Secondary School, Hassan Central, Gombe. READ ALSO: NCC Asks Banks To Settle N17bn USSD Debt Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) launched three projects which include the Information Technology (IT) and Incubation Park, University of Ayangba, Kogi, ICT Capacity Building Centres at the College of Education, Gumel, Jigawa and Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Imo. Also commissioned were projects of the Nigerian Postal Service, the Neighbourhood Post Office/NIRSAL Microfinance Bank branch, Delta State and the Remodeled National Mail Exchange Centre (Mbiama), Ahoada West LGA, Rivers State.