Arese Carrington, the Nigerian widow of Walter Carrington, a former US ambassador to Nigerian, has provided insights into how the late Nigerian dictator, General Sani Abacha made frantic efforts to use her stop her late husband from criticising his government. Carrington who passed on Wednesday at the age of 90 was the US ambassador to Nigeria in the 1990s during the late General Sani Abacha’s military dictatorship. Carrington, who was given a Nigerian name, Omowale (the child who has returned) by Olusegun Obasanjo, was well known for his stand against human rights violations and anti-democratic tendencies of late Abacha’s regime. READ ALSO: Walter Carrington, Former US Ambassador To Nigeria Dies At 90 Arese in her 2018 memoir entitled, ‘Defend The Defenceless’ gave a detailed account of how Abacha tried through proxies to detract her late husband using her. Apparently, they felt they could through her reach him to stop opposing the military dictatorship. She wrote: “I was surprised when they sent the wife of a general to pay me a visit and ask me to name anything I wanted to keep Walter quiet. I made it clear that there was nothing I wanted that was more important than standing up for the oppressed people of Nigeria. The general’s wife left disappointed, unable to accomplish her mission.” They also tried again and this time, it was in Aso Rock where she and other diplomats’ wives went for an event and it was Maryam Abacha, who with another unnamed general’s wife approached her. She narrated: “They said they were saddened that my husband was so harsh on general Abacha in the media and asked whether there was a way I could convince him to soften his stance and tone down his criticisms? “They suggested I should use my feminine prowess during intimate times to convince him again. Again, I was dismayed at their suggestion and approach.” Carrington stood firm throughout. When the country returned to civilian rule in 1999, the Lagos State government renamed Louis Farrakhan Street in Lagos, after Carrington. The Federal Government has said that it will de-emphasise the use of the plastic cards printed by the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) in preference for digital identification of Nigerians in line with global trends. This implies that the registration number issued by NIMC to a registrant, and not the plastic card, will be the recognisable means of identifying any Nigerian captured in the database. The Minister of Interior, Mr. Rauf Aregbesola, said on Thursday that this was part of Citizen Data Management and Harmonisation programme of the government to bring the country’s identity management in line with modern standards. Speaking with State House Correspondents, he said, “The card is just for convenience, the real thing is the number you have; with that number you are on the data bank, everything about you is there. “We are just upgrading it such that your DNA too will be there very soon. Even if you are in a car, I will know if you are the one in the car with your DNA, it’s already captured. “You are already captured, you cannot run away anymore.” READ ALSO: NCC’s Committee On e-Fraud Reviews Inputs From Sub-Committees The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy of Nigeria, Isa Ali Pantami, also shed light on the new digital identification. He explained, “What the chairman (Aregbesola) is saying now is that we are no more talking about cards, the world has gone digital, so that card is no more. “Our priority now is digital ID, it will be attached to your database wherever you are. So, if you can memorise it by heart, wherever you go that central database domiciled with NIMC will be able to provide the number and every of your data will be provided. “Now, our focus is no longer on producing cards. That card is only for record but what is important is that the digital ID and if you notice we have started using the digital ID on international passport. Once you have the digital ID but not the card, we are 100 per cent done with you.” The Managing Director of NIMC, Aliyu Aziz, corroborated the two ministers. He stated, “With your national ID, you are already identified. In the US, it is called Social Security Number, the same with UK and… they can control more than 1.3 billion people in about seven minutes. “So, we have found out that this card is strenuous; it is Forex that is going out of the country and we are in 21st century and that is why we are focusing on national identification number and other identification by other agencies have been linked to NIMC.”