Two persons are said to have died after a privately owned helicopter crashed into a building in Opebi area of Ikeja, Lagos State on Friday. A third person who was rescued from the helicopter said to be carrying only three people has also been evacuated to the intensnive care unit of the Lagos State Teaching Hospital, where he is receiving treatment. Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, the director general of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) who confirmed the incident also disclosed that the bodies of the two dead occupants had been deposited at the morgue He said, “The agency received distress calls concerning a privately operated helicopter that crashed into 16 A Salvation Road, Opebi, Ikeja and immediately activated the emergency response plan. “The helicopter was carrying three (3) people, one is in the intensive care unit at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital while the other two were killed on impact and their bodies has been deposited in mortuary.  We on top of the challenges especially crowd control “Operation is ongoing and updates will follow.” In the aftermath of the misunderstanding between the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and Governor Nasir el’Rufai of Kaduna, a breakaway faction of the association has been formed. The governor was disinvited from addressing the annual conference of the NBA in circumstances some have suggested was motivated by ethnic bias. A group of lawyers who say the NBA no longer represents their interests have formed the New Nigerian Bar Association (NNBA). READ ALSO: ‘I Never Asked For Your Invitation’, El-Rufai Replies NBA On Withdrawn Invite The lawyers behind the new association said the el-Rufai controversy had exposed the inability of the NBA to manage and contain the heterogeneity of its members as well as their various interests. They said, “Its penal powers has been deployed discriminatively on the basis of ethnicity and regionalism. As a body of lawyers who have undergone training towards ensuring the promotion and protection of human rights and liberties, the NBA is supposed to live above sentiments, regionalism and discrimination on any basis and of any kind. “Therefore, the NBA cannot afford to be seen not to be upholding the rights and freedom of its own members if at all, it should be seen to be practising what it preaches. The statement said, “The New Nigerian Bar Association have been watching the activities of the NBA, an association we all looked forward to joining with high hopes before being called to the Nigerian Bar, forcing idiosyncrasies of few on the majority of its members, especially in recent times” READ ALSO: NBA Withdraws El-Rufai’s Conference Invitation “No wonder, NBA NEC, which is the highest decision-making organ of the association failed to uphold the fundamental principles of fair hearing which in itself, is the fundamental aspect of Rule of Law, on the allegations against the Executive Governor of Kaduna state, Mallam Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai as were contained in a petition by Chidi Odinkalu Esq. a long time foe of His Excellency and a lawyer of eastern extraction, but the NBA failed to extend the same treatment to Southern invitees who were also petitioned and are also alleged to have committed similar or more human rights abuses than those alleged against Mallam El-Rufai.”