The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, has said that Nigerians are not seeing massive infrastructural development and other achievements of the President Buhari-led government because they are not “calming down”. Borrowing words from the trending video of a boy who was seen begging his mother to “calm down” and not punish him for picking what was not given to him, Adesina, in his week column published in The Interview on Friday, said Nigerians needed to “calm down” to see and appreciate what the government of Buhari has done. He said Nigerians were “too uptight, nervy, edgy. We grumble, murmur too much, call the government a lot of names, try to demonise those serving the nation, when it could be “our last chance. Last chance in the world” to really fix things.” READ ALSO: Why We Need To Calm Down “If we calm down, what would we see? Massive infrastructural developments. Roads, rail, airports, bridges, efforts to reverse power deficit of many decades, newly approved Youth Bank to empower the younger generation, strident efforts to secure the country, N2.3 trillion stimulus package to combat the negative effect of COVID-19, and many other positive developments. There are many, and many more”. Adesina said criticisms on killings, banditry, joblessness, corruption from some angry youths, religious leaders, political analyst and activist were false, adding that these problems were not peculiar to Nigeria as a country. “If you listen to some people; angry youths, religious leaders, political analysts, newspaper columnists, news reviewers, so-called activists, then nothing positive is happening in the country. It is all about insurgency, banditry, killings, joblessness, corruption, lack and deprivation. True? False! READ ALSO: ‘Mummy Calm Down’ Video: Sanwo-Olu Urges Lagosians To Celebrate Sallah With Moderation “Those things are there, as they are also in many countries of the world. But they are not the only things happening in Nigeria. Only that we would not see the positive things, except we calmed down. We would never enjoy the rainfall, if we expect rainstorm to carry away our rooftop at any moment. Calm down. “I’m just telling you to be ‘calming’ down”, Adesina said. The Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has appointed Balaraba Ibrahim as his Special Assistant on Unmarried Women Affairs. The appointment was conveyed to her in a letter dated August 4, 2020, from the Secretary to the State Government, Mohammed Baba. The appointment letter, however, didn’t state what her tasks as the special assistant on Unmarried Women Affiars would be. The letter read, “I am pleased to convey the approval of his Excellency Sen Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed CON, the Governor of Bauchi State, for your appointment as Special Assistant, Women Affairs (Unmarried). “The appointment is based on your knowledge, experience and personal qualities of hard work, honesty and absolute loyalty. I would expect you to utilise all these qualities in facing the challenges of your office to facilitate the attainment of our collective goal and the expectation of our electorate.” It further said, “The terms and conditions of your appointment as enunciated in the regular government policies as applicable.”