Management and Staff of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) have poured encomiums on the Commission’s Head of Media Management and Public Relations, Sonny Aragba-Akpore, farewell following his retirement. Aragba-Akpore, former Information and Communications Technology/News editor at the Guardian Newspaper, joined the service of the Commission in 2014. A statement by the director of public affairs at NCC, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde on Sunday described scenes at a recent event held to bid the former head farewell. Speaking at the valedictory party held in his honour on Thursday, July 16, 2020, which was attended physically and virtually by staff of the Commission, the Executive Vice Chairman, Prof. Umar Danbatta, reportedly praised 0the level of professionalism Aragba-Akpore brought to bear on his work at the Commission. Represented at the event by the Director, Projects, Abigail Sholanke, Danbatta commended Aragba-Akpore for using his many years of industry experience and knowledge as a media professional and corporate communication manager to create a robust relationship with both mainstream and online media stakeholders, which, he said, has contributed significantly to the overall positive image and favourable public perception of NCC. “On behalf of the Board, Management and Staff of Commission, we wish you a successful retirement and fruitful engagements in your future endeavours,” Danbatta said. In his remarks, Director, Public Affairs Department, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, said “within the short time  I worked with Mr. Aragba-Akpore, I found him to be a man of uncommon passion for his work,” describing him as a very committed and hardworking colleague. “We, therefore, wish you increased divine favour, as you retire from the services of the Commission.” Other staff of the Commission, including directors, deputy directors, middle management staff, among others, took turns to talk about the favourable working relationship they had with Aragba-Akpore while at the NCC and wished him well in his retirement life. Responding, Aragba-Akpore expressed gratitude to the Management and Staff of the Commission for their support and cooperation during his service and for organising a befitting valedictory ceremony in his honour, saying he enjoyed working with the NCC. “This is one event I will not forget in a hurry. Indeed, I feel I am very lucky and singularly blessed and very appreciative of the privilege to work with a leading telecoms regulator like the NCC. For me, it is once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” he said. The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has asked its partners to use the powers of law, particularly the amended Act setting up the corporation to squeeze debtors who still owe it some N5trn. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of AMCON, Mr Ahmed Kuru, who made the request, attested to the efficacy of the processes of receivership and winding up procedures as amended in the 2019 AMCON Act, which President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law last year. He called on Asset Management Partners (AMPs) of the Corporation to leverage those provisions among other potent aspects of the Act to rave up recoveries. READ ALSO: FG May Inherit N5trn Debt Owed AMCON- Ahmed Kuru Even as its sunset draws near with each passing year, AMCON, he said, was still heavily burdened by over N5trn, which is yet to be recovered. Kuru spoke at a one-day seminar for AMCON AMPs facilitated by Dr. Fatihu Abba’s Legal Academy at the Trancorp Hotel, Abuja. He said ever since the Act was signed into law by Mr. President, the Corporation has witnessed some remarkable improvement in its recovery efforts, which is why it is a veritable tool that AMPs should explore to its maximum. Kuru charged partners of AMCON in the recovery drive to tighten the noose on obligors using the “weapon” of the amended AMCON Act to stop a few recklessness individuals who have continued to take advantage of the loopholes in our laws to escape their moral and legal obligations to repay their debts. READ ALSO: AMCON Takes Over Assets Of Deap Capital Management & Trust Describing the AMP schemes as “a major tool in the recovery efforts of the Corporation and key to its success,” the AMCON Chief Executive who was represented at the seminar by Mr Joshua Ikioda, AMCON’s Group Head of Enforcement called on all AMCON partners to intensify efforts using the added powers as provided by the AMCON Act. But as they do, Kuru however cautioned that AMPs as professionals must also ensure that they were guided by strict compliance and within the confines of the law. He said, “We have repeatedly made the point at every opportunity that all stakeholders must view the AMCON mandate as one of serious national importance. If at sunset AMCON is unable to recover the huge debt of over N5trillion, it becomes the debt of the Federal Government of Nigeria for which taxpayers’ monies will be used to settle. READ ALSO: AMCON Seizes Assets Of Doggi Group Over N440m Debt “The implication is that the general public will be made to pay for the recklessness of only a few individuals who continue to take advantage of the loopholes in our laws to escape their moral and legal obligations to repay their debts. We should not allow a few individuals to escape with our commonwealth. And we want to do it within the confines of the law.” He said, “Our various interactions with stakeholders, and particularly feedbacks we receive from Honourable Judges necessitate continuous training and retraining our AMPs especially as it relates to challenges encountered during filling processes in court and enforcing AMCON’s rights on obligors’ assets. “Also, considering the Corporation’s new enforcement strategy and our newly amended AMCON Act 2019, the role of AMPs become even more vital and cannot be overemphasised. We reiterate, our AMPs are very key to the success of AMCON.”