The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has expressed his pleasure with the growth of ICT’s contribution to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the second quarter of 2020 (Q2 2020) which is now 17.83 per cent according to data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Monday. ICT contribution to GDP in the second quarter of 2019 was 14.07 per cent. The non-oil sector, which includes ICT contributed 91.07 per cent to the nation’s GDP in Q2 2020 as opposed to the 8.93 per cent contributed to total real GDP by the oil sector. The Technical Assistant, Information Technology to the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Femi Adeluyi, in a statement said the increase of ICT sector to the GDP is a direct result of the focused and committed effort of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. He said, “The strategic policy directions of the Federal Government include the inclusion of Digital Economy in the mandate of the Ministry, the unveiling and implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy and the National Broadband Plan, amongst others. “As at July 2020, the broadband penetration in the country was 42.02 per cent, translating to a percentage increase of almost double digits in less than 1 year. This is another remarkable achievement.” “The unprecedented contribution of ICT to Nigeria’s GDP can also be attributed to dynamic and results-oriented leadership which has been acknowledged and appreciated by a wide spectrum of the stakeholders in the sector.” The senate of the University of Lagos on Monday elected Folasade Ogunsola as acting Vice Chancellor. She is the first woman to ever hold the office. Ogunsola was, before her election as the university’s acting Vice Chancellor, was the Deputy Vice Chancellor for Development Services of the institution. READ ALSO: Buhari Suspends UNILAG Pro-Chancellor, Wale Babalakin Her election followed a directive from President Muhammadu Buhari to the senate of Unilag to appoint a VC in acting capacity after he suspended both the Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Wale Babalakin and the Vice Chancellor, Oluwatoyin Ogundipe. READ ALSO: Governing Council Sacks UNILAG VC, Professor Ogundipe Babalakin, who is the chairman of the Governing Council of the university led it to sack Ogundipe in controversial circumstances and appointed Theophilus Soyombo in acting capacity. The new acting VC was elected in a senate vote where she scored 135 votes to defeat Ben Ogbojafor, who garnered only 31 votes. READ ALSO: UNILAG Governing Council Appoints Prof. Soyombo Acting Vice Chancellor Ogunsola was previously the provost of UNILAG College of Medicine and is the principal investigator at AIDS Prevention Initiative in Nigeria (APIN) at UNILAG.