Nigeria’s death toll from the coronavirus pandemic has reach 950 as five more deaths were announced on Monday. The latest update released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control also showed the country recorded 290 new cases of COVID-19. It makes the second time in the month of August that less than 300 new cases were reported. On August 3, there were 288 new cases. The last Nigeria recorded less than 200 new cases in a day was on May 28, when 182 new infections were reported. With the latest figures from NCDC, there are now 46,867 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infections in Nigeria and 33,346 patients discharged from hospital. Lagos and Plateau had the highest number of new cases with 82 each, followed by Oyo wich reported 19 cases. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 18 new cases, Edo had 16, Kaduna had 15, while Enugu and Ogun each recorded nine new infections Kano and Kwara states each had eight new cases, Cross River State, Ondo and Rivers states had five each, Ekiti State had four, Imo State had three and Borno State had two. The Minster of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, has in a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, defended himself against allegations of corruption by a coalition of Civil Society Organisations. The three CSOs had in a similar manner written to the president asking that the AGF be investigated for the management of some high profile criminal cases, financial fraud and influence peddling. The AGF in his letter said his wealth was not ill-gotten and that he had strictly adhered to the code of conduct prescribed for public officers. READ ALSO: Corrupt Governors, Judges and 2019: My Story – Abubakar Malami Explaining the source of his wealth, he said, “It is to be noted that apart from my successful legal practice of more than 20 years, seven of which were as a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, SAN, before my appointment, I have as allowed by law had interests in business ventures, all of which I had resigned from active participation upon my appointment. “Among other things, I owned lucrative business ventures of Rayhaan Hotels and Rayhaan Food & Dr
inks, both in Kano, since December 13, 2013, years before the 2015 election that saw to the victory of President Muhamadu Buhari as the President and long before I was appointed to be a Minister in the first term.” He said, “That informs why those items were included among 27 property listed in the Code of Conduct Bureau, CCB, Form filled by Malami when he was first appointed a minister. READ ALSO: Falana Writes Malami, Demands Prosecution Of Soldiers Who Killed 3 Policemen “Apart from the above as income from the government, Your Excellency is invited to also note that while the Code of Conduct for Public Officers prohibits my active participation in the running of my already established ventures, it does not preclude me from gaining the fruit of my establishments.” The AGF wrote, “Hence, earnings from mainly the hotels, restaurants, farms are used to either improve these ventures or to expand and build new ones. In all these, the requirement of the law is that I declare at the point of exit from office as I have declared at the point of entry. READ ALSO: Falana Tells Malami: You’re Giving Buhari Poor Advice “On assumption of office in 2015, I had course as a constitutional requirement to file my assets declaration form at the point of assuming duty as a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria detailing my assets which include: my houses (both residential and others) farmlands, hotel, school and other enterprises. He said, “Statements of accounts from all my banks were also submitted to the Code of Conduct which were duly verified as is the procedure after submission is made. A copy of the form is attached hereto as annexure1, should Your Excellency wish to personally review it. “As a public officer, my sources of income were streamlined and narrowed to my entitlements from the government coffers. READ ALSO: Wadume: My Office Not Protecting Soldiers From Prosecution, Malami Replies Falana “These entitlements come in the form of salaries, allowances and estacodes. For the period, I have served as a Minister (for the 1st term) starting from November 11, 2015 to May 28, 2019, the cumulative figure of what constitutes these entitlements is as provided for in our laws relating to the salary and emoluments of political office holders.”