Nigerian Army on Thursday said they had deactivated 25 illegal refineries in the south south region, in its effort to curb crude oil theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal oil bunkering in the country. This was disclosed in a statement published on it website and circulated via its official twitter handle on Thursday. Nigerian Army said the 25 illegal refineries that were deactivated were operating in three South South States of Rivers, Cross River and Akwa Ibom. “Troops of Operation DELTA SAFE have intensified the fight against crude oil theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal oil bunkering in the region with attendant successes. “Within the period under review, Operation DELTA SAFE discovered and deactivated 25 illegal refining sites in Rivers, Cross Rivers and Akwa Ibom States. “Also, a total of 342, 000, 00 litres of product suspected to be illegally refined AGO were impounded. Subsidiary operations CALM WATERS II and SWIFT RESPONSE have continued to record remarkable successes”, the statement read. It added that the Nigerian Navy Ship DELTA led a peace and reconciliation meeting with the stakeholders of Gbaramatu Kingdom of Warri South LGA of Delta State. “The peace meeting was held following recent threats to disrupt oil and gas infrastructure by the people of Gbaramatu Kingdom”, statement read. The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Danbatta, wants commercial banks in the country to settle N17bn they owe telecommunications companies following his commission’s suspension of its Determination on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) Pricing last year. Danbatta made the debt disclosure during ATCON’s virtual forum on “Meeting the Interests of Government, Consumers and Telecoms Companies in the Era of Covid-19 and Post Covid-19 Pandemic for Digital Economy Development”, according a statement by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde,  NCC’s director of public affairs. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Ali Pantami had already been briefed on the development with a view to ensuring a quick settlement of the debt, Danbatta reportedly said at the forum. READ ALSO: NCC Reviews Pricing Of USSD Speaking on other issues, he said, “that ninety-eight per cent (98%) of the total service-related complaints received from telecoms consumers within a 15-month period, spanning January 2019 to April 2020, have been successfully resolved by the Commission.” On quality of service, Danbatta said, “the Commission has monthly engagements with operators as well as quarterly industry working group on Quality of Service and Short Codes, and is currently monitoring 2G Key Performance Indicators, while the KPIs for 4G are being prepared.” NCC had earlier said the amendment to its USSD Determination was necessitated by a protracted dispute between Mobile Network Operators and Financial Institutions on the applicable charges for USSD services and the method of billing. READ ALSO: Telecoms Operators Must Resolve Internet Complaints In 72 Hours – NCC Danbatta said that in the interest of the consumers and other stakeholders, the Commission revised the Determination previously issued by removing the Price Floor and the Cap to allow Mobile Network Operators and the banks negotiate rates that will be mutually beneficial to all parties concerned. The NCC also determined that Mobile Network Operators must not charge the consumers directly for the use of USSD channels for financial services in the form of end-user-billing, but revert to corporate billing. The transaction should be between the MNOs and the entity to which the service is provided (i.e. Banks and Financial Institutions).