Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has tested negative for COVID-19 after undergoing a test in Abeokuta, Ogun State. According to his media assistant Kehinde Akinyemi, the test was conducted by a private laboratory, Molecular Genetics Laboratory 54gene, Lagos. READ ALSO: Kashamu Evaded Extradition But Couldn’t Escape Death – Olusegun Obasanjo The test was conducted by Dr. Olukunle Oluwasemowo on August 7, 2020, at his Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) Pent House residence, Okemosan, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Akinyemi said the samples taken was returned negative on Saturday. The laboratory is one of the accredited laboratories approved by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to conduct the crucial Covid-19 test on both asymptomatic and symptomatic Nigerian. Olusegun Obasanjo, Nigerian former president, has described the death of Senator Buruji Kashamu, as a lesson for those still alive. The senator who was the gubernatorial candidate of the People’s Democratic Party in the 2019 general elections died on Saturday in Lagos from COVID-19 complications. Obasanjo who was reacting to his death in a condolence message to the Ogun State government recalled that the late politician had been wanted by the United States government for alleged offences related to drug trafficking but managed to evade all extradition attempts. READ ALSO: Senator Kashamu Buruji Is Dead He wrote, “Senator Esho Jinadu (Buruji Kashmu) in his lifetime used the maneuver of law and politics to escape from facing justice on alleged criminal offence in Nigeria and outside Nigeria,” the former president said. “But no legal, political, cultural, social or even medical maneuver could stop the cold hands of death when the Creator of all of us decides that the time is up. Praying to the Almighty to forgive the late Kashamu his sins, Obasanjo added, “May Allah forgive his sin and accept his soul into Aljanah, and may God grant his family and friends fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.”