Governor Nasiru el-Rufai of Kaduna State has said he has no ambitions to contest for president in 2023, insisting he will only back a candidate from the south of Nigeria. El-Rufai, who spoke to BBC Hausa on Saturday said he would not support a northern candidate to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in office. He said, “In Nigerian politics, there is a system of rotation, in which everyone agrees that if the north rules for eight years, the south will rule for eight years. READ ALSO: 2023: Mamman Daura Spoke For Himself, Not Buhari – Presidency “That is why I came out and said that after President Buhari has been in office for eight years, no northerner should run for office. Let the Southerners also have eight years.” The governor, who has long been rumoured to be eyeing the presidency dismissed any suggestion he planned to contest in 2023 and stands by the political understanding of rotating the presidency between the north and the south. READ ALSO: Mamman Daura Is Not The Problem He said, “If you look at how I am, I don’t take anyone to work with me for the zone he came from. The eligibility I look at is if who is entrusted to the public will hold it properly. “It has been said that I have loved the presidency since I was a minister in the FCT. This is nonsense. I do not want the Nigerian presidency. God gives power, whether you like it or not, if He wants it, He will give it to you, but I have never sought the presidency of Nigeria, no one can say I have ever sought it.” Senator Kashamu Buruji, who represented Ogun easy senatorial district in the Senate between 2015 and 2019, is dead. The late senator was the PDP governorship candidate in the 2019 election and ran with former presidential spokesman Reuben Abati as his running mate. Senator Ben Bruce who also served in the Senate representing Bayelsa posted a condolence message on his Twitter handle. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Former Oyo Governor, Ajimobi Is Dead Senator Bruce’s tweet read, “Buruji I have just lost my good friend of forever to #COVID19. Until his death, Sen. Buruji Kashamu and I were inseparable. He died today at First Cardiology Consultants, in Lagos. May his gentle soul rest in peace. I pray his family and loved ones the fortitude to bear this heavy loss.” Buruji turned 62 on May 19 and was reported to have died from complications due to COVID-19. There are reports that he had been on life support for several weeks. READ ALSO: President Buhari’s Chief Of Staff Abba Kyari Dies Of COVID-19 He died in the same hospital where former Oyo Governor, Abiola Ajimobi and Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari died. For over a decade, the Nigeria government has been in a legal battle to extradite him to the United States of America, where he was facing criminal charges relating to drug trafficking.