The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Monday announced that it had secured a final forfeiture of N827,679,098.32 from two Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) contractors. Allegations of massive corruption in the NDDC have come to the fore in the past week as lawmakers probe into how mismanagement of funds in the agency. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD The anti-graft agency in a statement via its official twitter handle on Monday, however, disclosed that it had secured forfirture of over N800million from contractors working with the NDDC. The EFCC identified the two firms forfeiting N800m to the federal government as Flank Power Resources Limited and GMFD Ventures Limited. READ ALSO: NDDC Probe: Drama As MD Slumps During Questioning “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC has secured the final forfeiture of N827,679,098.32 (Eight Hundred and Twenty-Seven Million, Six Hundred and Seventy-Nine Thousand, Ninety-Eight Naira, Thirty-Two Kobo) from Flank Power Resources Limited and GMFD Ventures Limited”, the statement reads. The anti-graft agency added that “Both firms are linked to  contractors with the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC”. The Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, has announced that all the 104 Unity Colleges in the country are ready to open for exit classes tomorrow. The Federal Government had released a comprehensive schedule for various National Examinations for exit classes, beginning from August 17 to November 18, 2020 last week. In a statement issued by the Director of Press and Public Relations, BemGoong, the Minister of State for Education, on Monday, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, announced the preparedness of the Unity Colleges at a meeting with Honourable Commissioners of Education of the States of the Federation this morning. READ ALSO: Secondary Schools To Reopen August 4 “The Honourable Minister of State for Education, Permanent Secretary and Directors will embark on an assessment tour of all Unity Colleges to ascertain and confirm the reports they have received from the Principals of Unity Colleges. “Similarly, Federal Education Quality Assurance Directors deployed to the States have been directed to monitor compliance in their respective states. “Honourable Commissioners from the States were enjoined to embark on assessment tours in their jurisdictions to ascertain the level of preparations for reopening”, the statement reads. READ ALSO: COVID-19: President Buhari To Decide Reopening Of Schools, Places Of Worships Today “While most schools will reopen tomorrow, others will continue to fine tune their preparations in the coming days for reopening. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba also asked schools to communicate their specific reopening dates to their parents and students in order to avoid chaos in the system.