The management of Chelsea Football Club on Friday said it was monitoring the Coronavirus situation carefully and following Public Health England and NHS guidelines to ensure safety of its visitors, staff and players. The club made this known in a statement published on its website on Friday, saying it had increased cleaning routines across all its facilities and strengthened hygiene and sanitisation in public areas. “We appreciate that with regular news stories and updates about covid-19 coronavirus, there are many questions that our supporters and visitors will have around visiting Stamford Bridge, Kingsmeadow and our other sites. “We are monitoring the coronavirus situation carefully and regularly, with the health and safety of our visitors, staff and players as our priority. “We are following Public Health England and NHS guidelines, which means that our stadiums are currently open for business as usual. “However, in line with those guidelines we have increased our cleaning routines across all of our facilities and strengthened hygiene and sanitisation in public areas, the statement reads. The club urged visitors to the stadium to wash their hands in any of the public toilets in the stadium upon arrival and those who have recently travelled to the UK from countries with a higher risk of coronavirus to seek medical advice. “We ask visitors to the stadiums to ensure they wash their hands in any of the public toilets within our facilities upon arrival. “If you have recently travelled to the UK from countries with a higher risk of coronavirus you should seek medical advice. If you have been to one of these places in the last 14 days, find out what to do using the NHS 111 online coronavirus service. “If you are experiencing symptoms (which include a cough, a high temperature or shortness of breath) or have been to any high-risk areas, the Government advice is to call NHS 111, stay indoors and avoid contact with other people immediately. “Anyone with flu symptoms should avoid the risk of spreading their infection by staying at home and recovering.