Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State has announced the suspension of all training, workshops, seminars and official trips outside the State for the next three months as a precautionary measure against the COVID-19 pandemic. Fintiri gave the directive in a special broadcast to the people of the state  in Yola. He said that other measures adopted by the government to prevent and contain the spread of the deadly disease, include; the setting up of an Isolation Ward equipped with modern facilities at the Yola Specialist Hospital. He stated, “All trainings, workshops, seminars and official trips outside the state are hereby suspended for the period of three months, subject to review as the situation warrants. “And all conventions and congresses that will warrant a gathering of more than 50 people at a time, are hereby banned till further notice. “For the avoidance of doubt, all forms of social, religious and cultural gatherings, that will equally attract more than fifty people are also hereby banned.” He urged religious and traditional leaders to enlighten the people on why the measures were necessary, so as to secure and protect the lives of the citizens. He added that the government had resolved to implement cost saving measures including a downward review of its 2020 budget by 20 per cent and reduction in overhead cost by 50 per cent. “To cushion the effect of the alarming economic challenge of COVID-19, government has agreed on a 50 per cent reduction in the cost of house rent, commercial shops and business premises. “Government is aware of the impact of the economic implication of the current meltdown on informal businesses where majority of citizens are involved and has graciously approved another 50 per cent reduction in the taxes affecting this category,” the governor said. He noted that government was mindful of the need to shore-up its earnings through intensified efforts on Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) in areas where there would be minimal effect on the wel-lbeing of the public.