The dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, has finally reacted to his dethronement by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje‘s led Kano State government. In his first reaction to his removal from office on Monday, Sanusi in a video message which lasted over four minutes, accepted his dethronement as an act of destiny. Sanusi said, “With almost six years on this throne and (in charge of) our heritage. Today, the Almighty Allah, who gave me the leadership has destined to take it back,” Sanusi said. “As I always say, leadership has predetermined tenure, the days Allah destined are numbered. When the days come to an end one must leave. “We have accepted whatever Allah decides. We have agreed. We appreciate (God). We are happy, and we know it is what is best for us,” he added. The video appeared to have been recorded at the Kano Palace on Monday before Sanusi was whisked away into exile by security personnel. Towards the end of the video, the blaring of a siren could be heard signaling the arrival of the Kano police commissioner who led the operation. The deposed Emir Sanusi called on all titleholders and palace officials to support whoever emerged as the emir. Crown Prince, Aminu Ado Bayero has since been declared the new Emir of Kano Emirate. Sanusi continued, “We enjoin everyone to remain peaceful. We have directed our family, our children and those that support us that whoever gets it and is endorsed by the people they should pay allegiance to him. “They should follow him (the new emir). They should guard his honour and dignity because that is also the honour and dignity of this palace.” In affirming his ties to his grandfather who was deposed in a similar manner in 1963, Sanusi expressed happiness for practicing his reign in accordance with that of Emir Sanusi I. “It is a thing of pride that made us to rule and end in the same fashion as Halifa,” he said using his grandfather’s sobriquet. The dethroned Emir Sanusi expressed his thanks to the people of Kano, titleholders, lieutenants and friends for their support and affection during his reign. The Kano State government led by Governor Ganduje on Monday, March 9, dethroned Emir Sanusi. Emir Sanusi’s dethronement followed the State Council executive meeting presided over by the Governor Ganduje. But a statement by Alhaji Usman Alhaji, the Secretary to the State Government, said Emir Sanusi’s dethronement was due to his “total disrespect to lawful instructions from the office of the governor and other lawful authorities” “The Kano State Executive Council under the chairmanship of His Excellency, the governor of Kano, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje has unanimously approved the immediate removal/dethronement of the Emir of Kano Emirate, Muhammad Sanusi II,” the statement said.