The Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, directed that the over 600 school teachers he sacked in 2014, when he was acting governor after the impeachment of Governor Murtala Nyako be reinstated. This is following a garnishee order by the National Industrial Court compelling the governor to reinstate the sacked teachers. It could be recalled that, 600 teachers out of the 2000 sacked workers being refers as ‘’ Batch D’’ sued the Adamawa state government over the purported premature retirement/ sack in 2014. In compliance with the court order, Governor Fintiri directed the commissioner for education to immediately reinstate batch D1. A statement by Mr. Atenka John, Information Officer of the ministry said Fintiri had directed the Commissioner of Education and Human Capital Development Hon. (Mrs.) Wilbina Jackson, to immediately invite Batch D1 Teachers for screening and absorption. He added, “In the light of the above, the general public  are hereby informed that the Six Hundred and Fifty Nine (659) Claimants under the Batch DI Recruitment exercise are hereby invited for screening and verification, they are to come along with the following documents: I. Original copy of letter of temporary appointments. II. All relevant Credentials III. Reporting letter from posted school. “The screening exercise will start on Monday 9th March, 2020 by 9:00am at the Conference Hall Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Yola.” The court  had declared that, “The premature  sacking of the workers in 2014 by the Adamawa State Government without conducting any investigation, without giving them an opportunity to defend themselves and without complying with the condition precedent for sacking is contrary to Section 36 of the 1999 Constitution and therefore illegal, unlawful, unconstitutional and null and void.” The court, therefore, ordered the workers to immediately return to their duty posts without any loss to seniority, salaries, position and other emoluments. The judge also ordered the state government to compute and pay within 30 days all salaries, allowances and other emoluments due to the workers from June 2014 to the judgment date.