An APC stalwart in Adamawa State, Dr. Unar Duhu, speaks on a wide range  of issues from the lingering crisis at national and state levels, to the dethronement of the Mohammed Sanusi II the Sarkin Kano, and the trial of former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal: Is APC a dying horse? Let me emphatically tell Nigerians that APC will come out stronger than cynics ever expected. Despite the hullabaloo over the position of the National Chairman, Mr. President’s  intervention was timely and has further given the party proper direction and tensions have died down. What is left is for Comrade Adams Oshiomole to be inclusive in running the party. But some people are still determined to oust Oshiomole. Why is it so? Those agitating for National Chairman’s ouster have their reasons, so also those against. But, I expect the National Chairman to gather intelligence from both pros and cons to choose and alternative course of action and embrace dynamism in his style of leadership for the great APC. As I said earlier, the President’s intervention has brought succour. The agitators have sheathed their sword and the party is enjoying relative peace at the moment. It is our prayer that all members must embrace the ongoing peace and reconciliation as panacea for the consolidation of our party. The National Chairman has taken note of all grievances and as a leader from both private and public sector background, he knows exactly what to do to win back the hearts of most of them to reason along Is 2023 a major factor? Well, I do not agree entirely that the brouhaha in the APC was all about 2023 politics. Who among all these proponents and those at the center of the storm might not live to see 2023? Power is from God the Almighty and only He knows who will be alive in 2023 and only He will choose who will govern over us in 2023. Some people complained of Oshiomhole’s style of leadership. The National Chairman has taken note of all grievances and as a leader from both private and public sector background, he knows exactly what to do to win back the hearts of most of them to reason along. Do you think the former Sarkin Kano would go into politics? Every leader is a politician in their own right. They adopt political strategies in dealing with issues as it affects them. Prior to his enthronement and dethronement, his Highness Sanusi Lamido Sanusi was an accidental politician. Maybe, what they are saying now is for him to contest for an elective position, where the entire Nigerian state or Kano people would vote for him. He has the right to vie for any position of his choice and guaranteed by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, as amended. I wish him the best of luck in any of his chosen endeavor. The coast is clear and he can choose any political party of choice to actualize his ambition if he so desires. APC was defeated in Adamawa in the last elections. What do you think happened? My party the APC did not lose the election during the 2019 polls in Adamawa State. What actually happened was a gang up against the governor by some members of the party. These were people who never meant well for the party and the state. Even with their antics, the APC won both presidential and gubernatorial elections in Adamawa but the results were changed. What measures are you taking to mend fences? The APC has set up reconciliation committees. In this regard, the Adamawa APC swung into action and interfaced with all critical actors and a resolution reached. I can say that the APC Adamawa State has reconciled with majority of the critical actors. No member of the party in Adamawa State should complain of exclusion. But Babachir recently fired salvos in the respect of the reconciliation move how will you react to his comments? It is preposterous for Mr. Babachir Lawal to make any derogative statement against the party in Adamawa State. If Babachir and his cohorts are never grateful to the APC, certainly, they will not make any derogative statements against it. It is on record, the APC made Babachir who he is today. APC made him its National Vice Chairman North East through controversial circumstance. APC made him the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and he was later disgraced out of office, after scoring just six votes for President Muhammadu Buhari in his polling unit. APC is still where he gets his patronage. But what did he give back to the party that made him and his cohorts? They ensured the defeat of APC at both the presidential and gubernatorial elections in Adamawa State out of wickedness and blackmail. If there is one thing that I will fault the national leadership and the state chapter of the party in Adamawa State, it is for their complacency in not handing down appropriate sanctions on erring members like Babachir and his cohort, in line with the rules of the party. Once discipline is not instilled in the party, members like Babachir can commit treacherous offences against the party and continue playing the ostrich.