Ciroman Kano, Nasiru Ado Bayero, was recently appointed the Emir of Bichi, replacing his brother, Aminu Ado Bayero, who was elevated to the position of Emir of Kano. He speaks to The Interview about his late father’s wishes and the controversy surrounding the emirate council. A new emir has been appointed. Do you think he is prepared for the challenges ahead, especially in reforming the institution? I think the new emir is capable of doing the job because as you see him, as I know him, he is like the late Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero. He is always trying to be humble and understand that life is about change and he can adapt to change. So, I am sure he is capable of doing what is required, especially when it comes to change. After his appointment, he said his father’s wish had come true. Would you say it was your father’s wish that one of his sons became emir? What I can say is that every father wants his son to be like him or even better. So, it is normal in life that every father wants somebody like his son to be in his place and even achieve more than him. So, I think it was the wish of our father to have his son to be the Emir of Kano. Both late Ado Bayero and now, Emir Aminu Bayero became emir shortly after another emir was deposed. The late emir was able to bring stability and rule for 50 years. Can Aminu Bayero bring stability to the emirate council and the state under the prevailing circumstances? As you know and everybody knows, this emir is like the late Emir of Kano. There are some of the characters of the late emir that he took. Especially, we believe that everything comes from Allah. I am sure he will adopt  things as they are, like the late Emir of Kano. I also think with his charisma, with his own knowledge and the help of Kano people and their prayers, Insha Allah, he will deal with all these issues coming up. What can you say to the supporters of the deposed emir, Muhammad Sanusi who are still hopeful of bringing him back as emir? Well, my message to the people of Kano and the people of Nigeria is that this emir will try to use all the methods that the late emir used in bringing the emirate to this stage. All these changes, I am sure, he will adopt them and he will do his best to see that the legacy of the late emir will continue in the palace, in Kano and in Nigeria.