The Borno State Governor, Babagana Umara Zulum, has said that, beginning from tomorrow Tuesday, 31, 2020,  the state will be on lockdown in order to fight the spread of COVID-19. According to a statement from the Maiduguri Government House on Sunday, only vehicles transporting food items, medicine, fuel, and other humanitarian goods will be allowed moving in and out of the state for the purpose of sustaining lives. The government has suspended the ongoing statewide verification exercise of Local Government Councils’ workers and ordered workers from Grade Levels 01 to 12, to work from home. The statement reads, “As from Tuesday, March 31, all banks operating in Maiduguri and organizations using biometric attendance equipment must provide hand washing stations and sanitisers at all operation points. “Banks are to limit number of customers in banking halls to not more than 15 at a time and to activate all ATM points to be functional. Shops in organized business areas to provide hand washing stations and temperature monitoring devices as well as promote social distancing. “All who default to these   directives would risk closure. The restriction is hereby imposed on the number of passengers in public transport; not more than three passengers and the driver in a car, and not more than two passengers and the rider in a commercial tricycle called Keke NAPEP. ” Buses should also ensure that passengers do not exceed ten including the driver. All those at the risk of Covid-19 should provide necessary information to health workers and to avail themselves to the Ministry of Health staff for documentation and advice on self-isolation and care.” Meanwhile, two Nigerian soldiers have reported to have tested positive for Coronavirus in Monguno, Borno State. Reports say that the affected soldiers, who returned to camp after they were issued administrative passes, have been quarantined at Sector 3 Mission Headquarters for observation since Saturday March 28, 2020. For now, it is not yet clear if the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control  (NCDC) had tallied the newly recorded cases to the number of confirmed cases in the country which currently stands at 111 with one recorded death.