Adamawa State Police Command on Tuesday paraded 11 repented Kidnappers alleged to have been terrorising some parts of the state. The 11 kidnappers, who voluntarily surrendered their arms, confessed to be the ones abducting the inhabitants of Girei and Song Local Government Areas respectively. The command also paraded 51 notorious Shila boys, five suspected kidnappers and four others apprehended in connection with rape/defilement. Shila boys are gang of youngsters terrorising residents by raping and snatching valuables. They attack with knives, scissors and other dangerous weapons. The alleged  kidnappers include; Muhammed Kalaldi, 50, Mohammed Hammadu, 37, Yusufa Gede, 40, Adamu Muhammadu, 32, Adamu Ibrahim, 38, Abubakar Atiku, 38, Manu Hammadu,22, Buba Umar,19, Babangida Naiwa,40, Hammadu Musa Gede, 35, and Alhaji Isa Bokoi, 30. The command also paraded Mohammed Isa, 30, and Usman Yahaya, 30, for criminal conspiracy and kidnapping at Roma village of Dumne, Song LGA and Tambo village in Girei LGA during which they collected N2.5 million as ransom. Parading the suspects, the Commissioner of Police, Audi Madaki, said that all the suspects were arrested from February to March, 2020, and reiterated the determination of the command to curb criminal activities in the state. He stated, “Weapons recovered from the apprehended suspected kidnappers include 13 AK 47 rifles, 761 rounds of live ammunition 18 magazines and 5 locally made pistols. “Likewise, the police have nabbed Abubakar Harande (aka) Dan Alhaji, Idris Dahiru and Jibrilla Mohammed, who kidnapped Bello Modire, Dahiru Jabbore, Rani Tudun Wada and collected N1.3m. “While the weapons recovered from the 51 Shila boys include; 8 cutlasses, 1 axe, 1 big stick, 5 sharp knives, 2 cartridges large quantity of hard drugs.” The CP told newsmen that the 11 kidnappers surrendered and submitted themselves to state Chairman of Miyetti Allah who in turn brought them before the police that they were the ones kidnapping in Girei. He thanked the people of the state for their constant support and urged them not to relent until the state is rid of criminal activities.