Super Eagles defender, Geoffrey Oboabona, shares the highlights of his career with The Interview. Excerpt… You played from the bench in the opening game of the season for your new club, are you disappointed? I joined the club just before the start of the season and I have to try my best to get into the team. I am sure I will get my opportunity in the team. The game ended goalless in your opening day of the season, what are your expectations? I am in tandem with the ambition of the club. I want to lift the league title and also go far in Europe. Who says we cannot get to the latter stages of the competition? I want to give my all to help the team and also help my own career too. How has it been for you as a player since joining the club and the acceptance by the fans and your team members? First, I have to thank God for the opportunity and for being with me since I moved to Georgia. After going through pre-season and also starting the season with a draw, we are ready to fight for honour after finishing last campaign in second position behind Dinamo Tbilisi. As for the fans, the acceptance has been fantastic, they have taken me into their midst as one of their own. This is a club with great ambition, targeting to win the league and also qualify for the group stages of the Europa Cup; I am looking forward to a great season here in Georgia. Why did you decide to join Dinamo Batumi and also the Georgia league? I will say God wants me here and also the ambition of the club because when I was contacted, they made it clear their intention and I see it as a good one for my career at the moment. You won the AFCON in 2013, the last time Nigeria won the competition. What has the success done to your career as a player? It was a great moment for me as a player lifting the title after so many years for my country. If you recalled, that victory allowed us to be part of the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup. It added a lot to my CV as a player and also helped me in a lot of ways apart from lifting my career. Nobody gave us a chance that year but we went all the way despite the shaky start we experienced. So far in your career, what will you say was your greatest achievement? Playing and winning the AFCON title with a country like Nigeria stands as the biggest achievement for me. So many players even better than I never won it, so I really want to give glory to God for that opportunity. I hope I can win the World Cup also and probably the next Europa Cup title with my new club.