The Presidency on Wednesday explained why the Federal Executive Council meeting has been suspended. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said that it was due to the number of those that attend the meeting which exceeds the recommended number at this time. He stated, “The Council was suspended because of the size. You have over 50 people seated in the Council Chambers whenever the meeting holds and that is not advisable at a time like this. “But if there would be a very important decision to be taken, you can always summon the relevant people, three, four or five and hold a small meeting and arrive at a decision. “It does not mean that one man is going to be taking all the decisions. Of course yes there are executive decisions but the ones that must pass through consultations of which must have a buy in of the federal executive council can always be discussed at a smaller meeting.” Adesina went ahead to speak on how the State House is dealing with the turn of events in the country. He said, “Well, things are a bit on a low key, it doesn’t mean that the State House is shut down, it’s just that things are a bit on the low key just like the rest of the country. The rest of the country is also on a low key, there is partial lockdown in most parts of the country. So, what is happening at the State House can also be called a partial lockdown but not a complete lockdown.” He also confirmed that President Muhammadu Buhari was indeed  tested for the COVID-19 virus, and that the outcome of the result called for rejoicing. “Anybody that does the test and test negative we will rejoice with that person. And anybody that does it and tests positive, it’s not a death sentence. We also would pray along with the person, give the person our good will and best wishes and they will surely come out of it. Even the index case in Nigeria recovered and has been discharged. So God that has shown us mercy thus far and will continue to show that mercy. Anybody that tests positive is not a dead sentence, they will be attended to, they will be tested and they will be fine,” he said. On the reported media ban from the State House, the Presidential spokesman said, “Ban is a wrong word. Anybody that uses that word ban is just operating from a mindset and you know that Nigerians love conspiracy theories but this one is no conspiracy at all. There is no ban. “What happened is that in the press gallery you have about 108 journalists in that single hall and it goes contrary to the spirit of the times. So we said for now let them stay away, not much is happening for now. But we picked a certain number, representative of the media, they will come in, if there is anything they will cover and those outside will also not miss because they would be a system in which they can share reports.”