The Nigerian First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has announced that her daughter, who just returned from the United Kingdom, is in self-isolation. The UK is one of the 13 locations the Federal Government placed travel restrictions on Wednesday over coronavirus spread. The President’s wife also disclosed that she had shut down her office for two weeks because some of her staff also recently returned from the UK. She added that she had directed essential members of staff to work from home. Mrs. Buhari took to her twitter handle, @aishambuhari, to announce her decisions, saying that she acted based on the advice of the Minister of Health and the Presidential Task Force on Covid -19. She wrote, “Good afternoon Nigerians. “Earlier today, my daughter returned from the UK, being among the high-burden listed countries of COVID-19. “Based on the advice of the Honourable Minister of Health, Presidential Task Force on COVID – 19 and that of National Centre for Disease Control, she is on self-isolation, not because she displayed any symptoms of the Covid-19 . “Please I urge all parents to do the same if possible as prevention is better than cure. “Similarly, I have shut down my office for two weeks with immediate effect, while essential staff can work from home as a result of some staff who recently returned from the UK.” She commended governors of the North, specifically mentioning Niger and Kwara states, for the “preventive measures taken to curb the spread of COVID-19 at their security meeting yesterday in Kaduna.” The first lady tweeted further, “Let’s keep following the advice of the Federal Ministry of Health and the NCDC, which encourage maintaining social distancing, high hygiene culture through regular washing of hands with soaps and sanitisers. “Let’s adopt preventive measures and ensure the safety of our families and that of general public. “We will overcome the Covid-19 pandemic if we all take the necessary precautions at the same time. “God bless you all. “Long live Federal Republic of Nigeria.” When contacted for comments on the first lady’s decisions, the Director-General, National Centre for Disease Control, Dr, Chikwe Ihekweazu, said much as the agency was not expected to comment on personal actions by individuals, he commended Mrs. Buhari for “demonstrating leadership.” He stated, “This is a sign of leadership. She is a privileged person, who could have hidden the information that her daughter just returned from the UK. “But, she came out to say this, and it is something that is applauded.”