The Nigerian government has agreed to lift the ban placed on Emirates Airlines from operating into and out of the country based on undertaking by authorities of the United Arabs Emirates (UAE). The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, in a statement signed by Mr. James Odaudu Director of Public Affairs in the ministry, said that the commencement of the airline’s operations would, however, depended on the commencement of visa issuance by the UAE. “UAE has written to state that they agree to issue visas to Nigerians, consequently decision has been reached to allow Emirates to fly into Nigeria with commencement of the Visa issuance as condition precedent. “Please bear with this unusual situation,” the minister said. Sirika appreciated the understanding of everyone who had been negatively affected by the recent policy decisions which forbade some airlines from operating into the country when Nigeria reopened its air space to international flights. According to him, the decisions were taken to protect the interests of the nation and its citizens who deserve to be treated with the same respect and dignity Nigeria treats other nationals. “It will be recalled that Emirates Airlines was initially given approval to operate into the country, an approval which was withdrawn following inability of Nigerians to obtain/use valid tourist visas to enter UAE,” he added. (NAN) The Federal Executive Council (FEC) on Wednesday approved a proposed budget of N13.08trn Capital Expenditure for the 2021 budget proposal has been set at N2.083trn. The Minister for Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, who addressed the media after the weekly FEC meeting at the state laid some key highlights of the proposed budget. READ ALSO: The minister put the oil benchmark has been pegged at $40 per barrel with a production level of 1.86 million barrels per day and an exchange of N379 per dollar. The proposal targets a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth of three per cent and an inflation rate of 11.95 per cent. The Minister, had the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba; the Minister for Information and Culture Alhaji Lai Mohammed and the Director-General of the Budget Office, Mr Ben Akabueze by her side during the address to the media.