Professor Audrey Gadzekpo, Dean of the School of Information and Communications Studies, University of Ghana, has said the United States of America cannot serve as an example for Ghana in managing fake news during elections because the US President is the country’s worst offender in propagating fake news. Speaking on Thursday during a webinar organised by Dubawa, a fact-checking media group, on Ghana’s upcoming election and fake news, Gadzekpo said Ghanaians must be prepared for a war of misinformation and fake news as the election approaches. She was one of several speakers who spoke on the topic, Elections 2020 And Fake News: Lessons From Past Elections And COVID-19. She said, “We are not the only ones concerned. There are elections in the US and other countries and therefore governments, tech giants like Facebook, Twitter, media companies are all struggling to contain and mitigate misinformation. It almost feels like a losing battle.’ No nation, not even the most sophisticated and powerful Gadzekpo said are immune to the ravages of fake news. “We know that some of the worst offenders are government officials and their proxies, she said. The dean said, “In the case of the U.S, which ought to be a beacon of democracy, its worst offender is it commander-in-chief, who constantly bypasses professional gatekeepers by taking to Twitter, delegitimizing legacy media as fake news, while taking to social media to propagate fake news himself, including on election matters. “So, they can’t be an example for us. Here in Ghana, with 80 days left for our own elections, we must brace ourselves for increase in disinformation campaign. “We should expect that social media will be weaponized during our elections, and therefore, examine more critically, the role of legacy media, traditional media.” She added, “Elections often breed conflict and the media can help de-escalate, facilitate peacebuilding efforts and transform electoral conflicts into constructive opportunities for the building of a stronger, pluralistic democracy in our country as well. “We also know that the technological development, that everyone capable of producing and disseminating news and information means we are even more susceptible to fake new and disinformation than ever before in history.” President Muhammadu Buhari said on Thursday that Nigeria was committed to sustaining democracy in the West African sub-region and would continue to do so within its limits. He spoke in Abuja when he received visiting Burkinabe President, Roch Marc Christian Kabore, at the Presidential Villa. The Burkina Faso leader was on a one-day official visit to Nigeria, according to the State House. Buhari told his visitor, “We are keeping tabs on situations in countries that have elections ahead. We know the countries that are calm and the ones where there have been unfortunate casualties. “We will always support those who have elections ahead, so that things can go smoothly.” Burkina Faso has its legislative elections coming up later in November. Buhari made the pledge to consolidate democracy just days after he had urged African leaders not to exceed their constitutionally-fixed terms in office so as to avoid needless political tensions in their domains. Kabore heads the Economic, Trade and Liberalisation Scheme of Economic Community of West African States. He informed Buhari he was in Nigeria for talks on issues affecting the sub-region. The Burkinabe leader listed the issues to include “convening of a joint commission meeting between Nigeria and Burkina Faso, reported trade difficulties among Nigeria, Ghana, Republic of Benin, and Niger Republic, and the way forward.” Kabore, who also spoke on the raging COVID -19 pandemic, praised Buhari for putting much efforts to lead other ECOWAS countries to introduce measures to check the spread of the virus, being the Chairman of COVID-19 response in West Africa. He noted, “I must also applaud your strong leadership against terrorism in the sub-region.” Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, quoted Kabore as mentioning the crisis in Mali, saying that “we need cohesion all over West Africa.” He was optimistic that Tuesday’s summit held in Ghana on the Mali case, would help in fast-tracking efforts by the ECOWAS countries to return Mali to civil rule. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo had attended the summit in Accra on behalf of Nigeria.