Nigeria’s Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala is among five candidates that have qualified to contest the next stage for the election of a director-general for the World Trade Organisation (WTO). The WTO said this in a statement on Friday. The five candidates were selected by member countries of the WTO. Only three were eliminated. READ ALSO: WTO Ignores Egypt, Accepts Nomination Of Okonjo-Iweala The candidates that qualified include Yoo Myung-hee of the Republic of Korea, Amina C. Mohamed of Kenya, Mohammad Maziad Al-Tuwaijri of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Liam Fox of the United Kingdom. Jesus Seade Kuri of Mexico, Tudor Ulianovschi of Moldova and Abdel-Hamid Mamdouh of Egypt all did not make it. David Walker, the general council chair for the selection committee, said the second phase of consultations will begin on September 24 and end on October 6. READ ALSO: ECOWAS Endorses Okonjo-Iweala For WTO Job During this time, members will be asked in the confidential consultations to express two preferences to the facilitators thus reducing the number of candidates from five to two. The WTO said, “Following this process, Ambassador Walker will call another heads of delegations meeting at which the results will be announced to the WTO membership. The timetable for the third and final round of consultations will be announced at that time.” The Federal Government has tweeted an apology for an earlier tweet on Thursday, calling on citizens to fill self-certification forms for accounts held in financial institutions. The government had described the Thursday tweet as misleading. The new tweet posted on Friday read, “We apologize for the misleading tweets (now deleted) that went up yesterday, regarding the completion of self-certification forms by Reportable Persons. The message contained in the @firsNigeria.” READ ALSO: FG Orders Certification Of All Account Holders In Banks, Others In a thread of tweets of a public statement, the Federal Inland Revenue Service gave a clarification of the tweet, which had led to the confusion. It said, “We like to refer our esteemed taxpayers & general public to the FIRS Public Notice: ‘Completion of Self-Certification Forms By Reportable Persons.’ This exercise is required for due diligence in line with requirements of Income Tax (Common Reporting Standards) Regulations 2019. “The ultimate objective of the Automatic Exchange of Information is to improve transparency in Nigeria’s tax system and boost the anti-corruption drive of the Government.” FIRS said, “The Self-Certification Forms are to be administered by Financial Institutions to enable account holders clearly document their respective jurisdictions of tax residence. Relevant Financial Institutions and other stakeholders have been adequately sensitised on this process. “Please note that this is a seamless process as the form is available for download on the FIRS website: https://t.co/4aGTcHS02w. Financial institutions are expected to provide email addresses or electronic portals for customers to upload completed forms.”