The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has announced Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi as its candidate for the Lagos-East senatorial bye-election scheduled for Octovber 31. The Secretary of the PDP Electoral Committee, Mr. Abiante Awaj-Imombak, made the announcement on Saturday in Lagos, while announcing the results of the party’s primaries. The accreditation and voting by delegates from wards in the five local government areas of Somolu, Kosofe, Ibeju- Lekki, Ikorodu and Epe started at about 1.30 p.m. Declaring the results, Awaj-Imombak said that 638 delegates were accredited with a total number of 624 votes cast, while 14 votes were voided. READ ALSO: Lagos Senator, Adebayo Osinowo Is Dead He said that Gbadamosi scored 529 votes to emerge the winner in the election, while Saidat Odofin Fafowora, got 59 votes to come second. “The other two aspirants were Babatunde Olanrewaju and Yetunde Oyefusi scored 21 votes and seven votes to place third and fourth, respectively,” he said. Awaj-Imombak said that Mr Ademola Alebiosu had earlier emerged as the party’s flagbearer for Kosofe Constituency II state House of Assembly by-election. He said the election was monitored by the Independent National Electoral Commission and other agencies. The Lagos East senatorial seat became vacant following the death of Senator Adebayo Osinowo on June 15 this year. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed 162 new  cases  of the Coronavirus disease (COVID-19 ) in the country, bringing the confirmed cases to 54,905. The NCDC made this known on its official twitter handle on Saturday. Nigeria continued its week of recording less than 200 new cases of COVID-19 per day with Saturday’s 162 new confirmed cases. The NCDC also reported three deaths were recorded in the country. The agency noted that till date, 54,905 cases had been confirmed, 42,922, discharged and 1,054 deaths recorded in 36 states and FCT. According to the public health agency, the 162 cases are reported from 14 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It stated that Lagos state led with 53 and followed by Gombe state with 21 new infections. Among other states with new cases were  Oyo (19), Delta (12), Ondo (11), Plateau (10), Ebonyi (9), FCT (6), Kwara (6), Kaduna (5), Rivers (3), Ogun (2), Anambra (2), Imo (2), and Ekiti (1). The NCDC said that one way the virus spread was by touching contaminated surfaces, then touching the face with the unwashed hands. “Ensure all surfaces are cleaned with soap and water or disinfectants at intervals to prevent transmission of the virus. “Observing physical distance reduces the risk of contact with droplets when an infected person sneezes or coughs. “Take responsibility to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spread by wearing  a face mask, observing  physical distance and washing  your hands frequently. “Wearing masks in combination with frequent hand washing and physical distancing measures, have been shown to help prevent the spread of COVID-19,” it advised. The public health agency disclosed that sometimes the COVID-19 test results take longer than expected. “While you wait for your result, self-isolate from friends and family. Also, please do not self medicate. You may be putting yourself at risk,” it said. Meanwhile, the agency said that one major output from the pandemic was the increasing investment in health security. It assured Nigerians that it would continue to work with states to sustain these investments.