The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Wednesday reported two COVID-19 deaths and 111 new cases of the coronavirus disease. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases on Nigeria now stands 57,724, while 48,985 patients have been discharged. The total death toll of the Coronavirus disease in Nigeria now stands at 1,102. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Death Toll Hits 1,100 Lagos State recorded the highest number of new cases with 31 infections. Gombe and Kaduna states reported 18 cases each. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 15, Rivers recorded 14, Imo reported, Kwara and Oyo states had three each, while Bayelsa and Ogun states had two each. Edo and Osun states recorded one case each. Speaking publicly for the first time since failing to unseat Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State in last Saturday’s election, Adams Oshiomhole has said that he is not down. Oshiomhole, the former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress  in a short video, where he appeared to have been working out said in reference to the election, “In life, you win some, you some.” Oshiomhole, also a one-time governor of Edo State staked everything, even losing his chairmanship of the APC, to defeat Obasaki whom he introduced to politics and helped become governor in 2016. READ ALSO: APC Crisis: Oshiomhole’s Arrogance Brought Us Here, Edo State Party Chairman Says They both fell out and ahead of the 2020 election, and Oshiomhole who was APC chairman, saw to it that Obaseki was disqualified from the party’s primaries. Obaseki turned to the PDP, under whose platform, he has now won re-election. In video, Oshiomhole said, “You know in life, you work hard and leave God for the outcome, you do your best and trust God to bless your effort. READ ALSO: INEC Declares Obaseki Winner Of Edo Election “I feel good. I feel healthy, thank God. I feel strong, thank God. In life, you win some and you lose some, but life goes on. I want to thank everybody. I am sure a lot of people think comrade is down, but I am not down. When God says you are not down, you are not down and I am not down. “I thank Edo people for all they did over the past two, three, four, six weeks, people under the rain under the sun, young ladies carrying babies on their back, I saw elderly women struggling to see my small face.” READ ALSO: APC Congratulates Obaseki On His Re-election As Edo Governor Oshiomhole said, “And on election day, I was moved to tears when I saw elderly women of 70 to 75 sitting down because the card readers were not working and they were not frustrated with that. They struck me with that. If at their age, they didn’t give up, why should I give up?”