The police in Katsina State on Thursday confirmed the arrest of a notorious member of bandits and kidnap for ransom syndicate, Abubakar Ibrahim, 19, at Rugu forest. The police spokesman, Mr. Gambo Isah, who disclosed this in a statement in Katsina, said that the syndicate, had been terrorising people in Batsari, Safana, Damnusa and Kurfi Local Government Areas in the state. Isah said that the police equally rescued three kidnapped victims. READ ALSO: Katsina Governor Admits Failure To Provide Security, Says Nothing About Resigning According to Isah, on September 7, 2020, the suspect, led other members of his syndicate, on motorcycles, all armed with AK 47 rifles, and attacked Dagarawa and Kudewa villages, in Safana and Kurfi Local Government Areas of the state. He said the bandits had kidnapped one Ashiru Ibrahim, 32, Duduwa Audu, 50, and Asiya Saleh, 45, all of Kudewa village, Kurfi Local Government Area, and took them into Rugu forest. READ ALSO: ‘Your Protests Could Distract Military Operations,’ President Buhari Begs Katsina Protesters “That  nemesis caught up with the suspect when he fell into a bobby trap, and was apprehended by SARS operatives, after he collected the sum of N241,000 ransom from the relatives of the victims,” he said. He revealed that in the course of investigation, the suspect had confessed that he committed the offence along with others, now at large. Isah said that the N241,000 ransom was recovered in his possession. READ ALSO: Some Katsina Local Chiefs Colluding With Bandits – Garba Shehu “Today, September 10, 2020, at about 9:30a.m., the command succeeded in arresting one of the suspects and rescued the victims. “The victims had reunited with their families after treatment at Kurfi General Hospital,” he said. (NAN) The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Thursday blamed the rising rate of crimes in the nation’s capital on the proliferation of shanty towns. “Shanty towns keep springing up in all corners. Henceforth, we shall not condone them in the FCT,” Mr. Adamu Gwary, Director of Security Services in the FCTA, said when he led a team to demolish illegal structures at Down Jabi community in Abuja. Gwary said that such settlements had become safe haven for criminals in the FCT. He said that the demolition would have been carried out earlier but was delayed “due to so many considerations”. He said that the exercise had to be carried out “in the interest of the general public”. The Director of FCTA Development Control, Malam Muktar Galadima, said that the department had carried out adequate sensitisation and held several meetings with the villagers and marked the structures long time before the exercise. Galadima advised people in the affected community not to build any commercial structure along the road corridor. “This is supposed to be an indigenous community but the proliferation of these commercial activities are attracting men of the underworld and even making the environment dirty,” he said. The Chairman, FCT Task Team on City Sanitation, Mr. Ikharo Attah, explained that most of the shops and brothels that were turning the place to an eyesore were removed at the instance of the original inhabitants of the FCT, whose buildings were not touched. “If you go around the buildings, some places have been marked for about eight times without being demolished. At a point, the people thought that government was not serious. “When empathy is brought to the fore and pity is icing the cake of enforcement, people think that the government is not serious. “The department of development control has come here several times to issue warnings,” he said. The FCTA had earlier issued several warnings and demolition notices to shop owners and some residents of the illegal settlement. It particularly advised them to remove their belongings. The warnings were, however, said not to have been taken seriously by those operating businesses and living there even after their shops and houses were marked by the authorities about eight times. Some people, whose properties were affected, told journalists that they were not given enough notice before the demolition, describing the exercise as “the height of insensitivity on the part of government”. (NAN)