The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) says it has inaugurated a new Automatic Exchange of Information-Common Reporting Standard (AEOI-CRS) system for the use of financial institutions in the country. FIRS Director, Communications and Liaison, Mr Abdullahi Ahmad, said this a statement in Abuja on Sunday. Ahmad said the step was part of the service’s ongoing reforms to align the nation’s tax system with global standards. He quoted the Executive Chairman, FIRS, Mr. Muhammad Nami as calling on reporting financial institutions under the Income Tax (Common Reporting Standard) Regulations 2019 to enroll on the portal. READ ALSO: COVID-19: FG Seeks Upfront Tax Payments From Corporations “The Automatic Exchange of Information-Common Reporting Standard (AEOI-CRS) system portal is currently live, open and active. “Consequently, all Reporting Financial Institutions (Commercial Banks, Merchant Banks, Discount Houses, Mortgage and Development Banks, Insurance and Life Assurance Companies, Investment Advisers, Trustees, Asset Management Companies, Issuing Houses, Brokers/Dealers, etc) are invited to enroll on the AEOI-CRS porta,l” he said. He explained that each Reporting Financial Institution (FI) was required to designate an appropriate officer as Primary User (PU). According to him, the PU is the custodian of the FI’s login details on the portal. He said a letter signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the FI introducing the PU to the FIRS was also required as part of the enrolment process. “In order to enroll as a PU of an FI and have access to related AEOI-CRS documents, please visit the FIRS website at www.firs.gov.ng and navigate the menu tab on Automatic Exchange of Information. “Please do this only if relevant contact details have been forwarded to the FIRS. FIs are to further take notice that CRS reports for 2019 are due not later than 30th September 2020. “For further information, send enquiries to aeoi.enquiries@firs.gov.ng or sanya.gbonjubola@firs.gov.ng,” he said. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has announced Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi as its candidate for the Lagos-East senatorial bye-election scheduled for Octovber 31. The Secretary of the PDP Electoral Committee, Mr. Abiante Awaj-Imombak, made the announcement on Saturday in Lagos, while announcing the results of the party’s primaries. The accreditation and voting by delegates from wards in the five local government areas of Somolu, Kosofe, Ibeju- Lekki, Ikorodu and Epe started at about 1.30 p.m. Declaring the results, Awaj-Imombak said that 638 delegates were accredited with a total number of 624 votes cast, while 14 votes were voided. READ ALSO: Lagos Senator, Adebayo Osinowo Is Dead He said that Gbadamosi scored 529 votes to emerge the winner in the election, while Saidat Odofin Fafowora, got 59 votes to come second. “The other two aspirants were Babatunde Olanrewaju and Yetunde Oyefusi scored 21 votes and seven votes to place third and fourth, respectively,” he said. Awaj-Imombak said that Mr Ademola Alebiosu had earlier emerged as the party’s flagbearer for Kosofe Constituency II state House of Assembly by-election. He said the election was monitored by the Independent National Electoral Commission and other agencies. The Lagos East senatorial seat became vacant following the death of Senator Adebayo Osinowo on June 15 this year.