Kwara State has recorded nine new cases of COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, the spokesman of the State Technical Committee on COVID-19, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday in Ilorin. Ajakaye, also the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, said that this was the situation as at 9.30p.m on Monday. With this development, the state now has a total of 954 confirmed cases of the virus. READ ALSO: 35 Kwara Doctors Infected With COVID-19 According to Ajakaye, out of the 987 confirmed cases, 799 patients have been discharged, leaving 163 active cases in the state. Ajakaye said that 5,248 tests were conducted, while 4, 261 tested negative with 25 deaths recorded so far in the state, while the state has no pending test. The virus has spread to 12 local government areas of the state. READ ALSO: Kwara State CoS Dies Of COVID-19 The local governments were Ilorin West, Ilorin South, Ilorin East, Moro, Offa, Oyun, Irepodun, Asa, Oke Ero, Edu, Ifelodun and Ekiti. Isin, Patigi, Kaiama and Kosubosu Local Government Areas have not recorded any case of the dreaded disease. European football faces further financial setback amid the coronavirus pandemic as governing body UEFA is returning about 575 million euros (about 259bn Naira) to broadcasters. European Club Association (ECA) chairman, Andrea Agnelli, said on Tuesday that UEFA is repaying 575 million euros (680 million dollars). He said this was because of the months-long suspension and the ensuing completion, with fewer matches than originally scheduled, of UEFA’s Champions League and Europa League. Agnelli told a virtual ECA assembly: “That is all money that is not going to be distributed.” Under the original deal, UEFA would have earned 3.25bn euros in the past season, with 2.55bn euros to be distributed among the participating clubs in both competitions. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Balloon d’Or Award 2020 Cancelled It was not clear whether the full 575 million euros would be withheld from the clubs or whether UEFA would also suffer losses. The Champions League and Europa League were suspended in March. They were then completed in mini-tournaments in August —- with two Europa League last-16 ties, all quarter-finals and all semi-finals played in one match instead of two. Agnelli, the president of Italian champions Juventus, reiterated that European clubs would lose some four billion euros in the 2019/2020 and 2020/2021 seasons because of the pandemic. Games behind closed doors have hit ticket sales’ income and Agnelli said he also expects less money from sponsorships and the transfer market. He added that the upcoming season was going to be “very, very challenging both on and off the pitch.” READ ALSO: CAF Postpones Africa Cup Of Nations, Other Tournaments The ECA chairman also suggested that talks about Champions League reform for the new cycle from 2024 be postponed until 2021. UEFA president Aleksandar Ceferin said recently he could envision finals tournaments for the club competitions, as happened this year in Portugal and Germany for the Champions League and Europa League respectively. (NAN)