The Card Readers provided for the Edo Governorship election to authenticate fingerprints of voters in Esan West and Esan Central Local Government Areas of Edo on Saturday failed to recognise some voters. While the Card Readers easily identified the voter cards, they failed to authenticate their fingerprints. This abnormally was noticeable at the polling units in Ward 5 (Uhunmudumu Primary School), and units 14, 15 and 16 (Emado Primary School) in Ekpoma, Esan West Local Government Area. The same was applicable in units 5 and 6, Ward 6 (Idumebo Primary School), in Esan Central Local Government Area. READ ALSO: INEC Chairman Warns Staff Against Taking Sides In Edo Election However, the voters were still allowed to vote after the cases were incidented on INEC form after which the voters were made to thumb print in the form. Meanwhile, Mr. Victor Edoro, a politician in the area and an ex-commissioner in Edo, Mr. Gideon Obhakhan, have described the exercise as impressive. They described the voting process as peaceful and orderly, with compliance to COVID-19 Pandemic containment protocols. Edoro, who voted at his voting centre in Idumebo Primary School, Irrua, Esan Central Local Government Area, described the voting process as “peaceful and hitch free.” (NAN) The Nigerian Army troops of Operation Sahel Sanity fighting banditry and kidnapping in the northwest region have foiled bandits’ attacks and rescued 22 kidnapped victims. The troops also recovered arms and ammunitions in various operations in Zamfara and Katsina States. General Bernard Onyeuko, the Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, disclosed this in a statement issued in Gusau on Friday. According to him, troops deployed at Moriki and Jangeru, responded to a distress call on Sept. 13, and folied a planned bandits’ attack on Mai-Zuma village in Zurmi Local Government Area of Zamfara. This, he said, followed heavy shoot out along Kayawa axis forcing the bandits to withdraw and abandon three motorcycles recovered by the gallant troops. Onyeuko said on September 12, troops deployed at Dandume in Katsina State rescued two young girls kidnapped by bandits on August 18, adding that the bandits abandoned the victims after a hot pursuit. He said that on September 17, troops also rescued 8 kidnapped victims from suspected bandits at Fankama and Sabon Layi area in Faskari LGA of Katsina. “Troops on patrol at Chabas Chabas, swiftly rescued a truck driver, 11 women and children, on their way to Batsari Market but blocked by suspected bandits along Shimfida – Gurbi Road in Katsina State,” he said. The Acting Director added that troops deployed at Forward Operation Base (FOB), Dansadau arrested a suspected bandit named Bello Ibrahim riding a motorcycle on his way to Dandalla village. Onyeuko noted that the troops recovered one Pump Action rifle and three live cartridges from the suspected bandit. He said, “On September 16, troops deployed in Faskari arrested a suspected bandits’ informant named Isah Indo while spying on troops’ location. “Following credible information; troops deployed at Yankara arrested a suspected bandits’ collaborator named Idris Isah from Yampa village in Faskari LGA of Katsina, who is engaged in illicit activities with bandits. “Also on Sept. 16, troops deployed at Magami arrested Yaya Rabiu at Magami checkpoint, the suspect was identified to be a member of a notorious bandit gang.” According to him, the bandits recently attacked troops location at Ruwandawa-Kwankele village in Gusau LGA of Zamfara. Onyeuko reiterated commitment of the Nigerian Army to protect lives and property, and  urged the people to provide credible information on suspicious movements and persons in their communities. (NAN)