Fire on Thursday razed down the headquarters of the Independence National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Akure, destroying about 5,141 card readers meant for the October 10 Ondo State governorship poll. The fire, which occurred at about 8.20 pm, gutted a large container housing the card readers. Men of the State Fire Service, who arrived at the scene at about 9:19 pm, became helpless when their equipment could not function. Mr. Festus Okoye, the INEC Commissioner in Charge of Information and Voter Education, confirmed the incident to newsmen in Akure. READ ALSO: INEC Introduces Election Result Viewing Portal He said that the fire destroyed 5,141 card readers meant for the upcoming governorship election in the state. Okoye, who gave assurance that the election would still go on, in spite of the incident, said that nothing would stop the poll. He said: “The fire occurred in a container, where the card readers for the election and those meant for the training of the supervising and presiding officers were stored. “It is unfortunate that we lost so many card readers but the incident would not in any way affect the conduct of the election. READ ALSO: The Tug Of War In Ondo “So, we are confident that this election will go on as scheduled. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and police have deployed more operatives to beef up security within the INEC premises. (NAN) French health authorities recorded the highest daily increase in coronavirus infections since the beginning of the pandemic, as the government considers further measures to stop the virus’ spread. On Thursday night, 9,843 new cases were announced from the previous 24 hours, the AFP news agency reported, citing the health ministry. The government is set to discuss further measures to contain the pandemic on Friday and the scientific advisory board has called on the government to act, according to the report. Many doctors fear that the intensive care units could be overburdened in autumn – as they were in March. Currently, large gatherings are already prohibited. In some cities, masks are mandatory in public places and even on the streets. The previous daily record was around 7,500 virus cases reported in late March. However, as in many countries, the number of tests has increased immensely. As in other European countries, young adults in France are increasingly contracting the virus, according to the authorities. Risk areas are predominantly the Ile de France region around the capital Paris and the Cote d’Azur region. (NAN)