Armed hoodlums on Tuesday morning invaded and robbed the family of the late businessman and politician, MKO Abiola at him home in Ikeja, Lagos. His daughter, Tundun Abiola, released a statement that said the family suffered emotional trauma from the experience. She said in the statement, “In the early hours of this morning, Tuesday, 2nd September, armed men invaded and ransacked the residence of Chief MKO Abiola in Ikeja, Lagos. “The hoodlums subjected the family to extreme emotional torture and harassment and stole cash and other valuable items belonging to the family.” She said, “The police have since been informed. The crime is being investigated. “We are consoled by the fact that no life was lost in this unfortunate and frightening incident.” Tundun Abiola said, “We give glory to Almighty Allah and we thank friends and family members across the world who have called and sent messages of support and solidarity.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 10 deaths and 239 new cases of COVID-19 in the country. The NCDC in its Tuesday update showed confirmed COVID-19 cases had grown to 54,247, while the number of deaths now stand at 1,023. READ ALSO: States Not Collecting Enough Samples, NCDC Warns As It Reports 143 New Infections A total of 42,010 patients have however recovered and discharged from hospital,  leaving just over 12,200 active cases. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Cases In Lagos Drop To 17, Lowest In Months Plateau State, which for eight days running has reported the highest number of new cases recorded 116 cases on Tuesday. The Federal Capital territory (FCT reported 33 new cases, while Lagos State, with 19 new infections has continued to witness a drop in new cases. READ ALSO: Nigeria Becomes Fourth In Africa To Report 1000 COVID-19 Deaths In Ekiti State, there were 12 new infections, 11 each in Kaduna and Ogun states, eight in Ebonyi State, seven in Benue State and five each in Abia and Delta states. Ondo State had four new infections, Edo State had three, Imo and Osun states had two each, while Bauchi State had one.