The Federal Government has tweeted an apology for an earlier tweet on Thursday, calling on citizens to fill self-certification forms for accounts held in financial institutions. The government had described the Thursday tweet as misleading. The new tweet posted on Friday read, “We apologize for the misleading tweets (now deleted) that went up yesterday, regarding the completion of self-certification forms by Reportable Persons. The message contained in the @firsNigeria.” READ ALSO: FG Orders Certification Of All Account Holders In Banks, Others In a thread of tweets of a public statement, the Federal Inland Revenue Service gave a clarification of the tweet, which had led to the confusion. It said, “We like to refer our esteemed taxpayers & general public to the FIRS Public Notice: ‘Completion of Self-Certification Forms By Reportable Persons.’ This exercise is required for due diligence in line with requirements of Income Tax (Common Reporting Standards) Regulations 2019. “The ultimate objective of the Automatic Exchange of Information is to improve transparency in Nigeria’s tax system and boost the anti-corruption drive of the Government.” FIRS said, “The Self-Certification Forms are to be administered by Financial Institutions to enable account holders clearly document their respective jurisdictions of tax residence. Relevant Financial Institutions and other stakeholders have been adequately sensitised on this process. “Please note that this is a seamless process as the form is available for download on the FIRS website: https://t.co/4aGTcHS02w. Financial institutions are expected to provide email addresses or electronic portals for customers to upload completed forms.” The Federal Government has said all account holders in financial institutions, which include banks and insurance companies must fill self-certification forms. The government in a tweet on Thursday said failure to comply with the new policy would attraction sanctions. Account holders in different financial institutions are required to complete and submit the forms to each one of the institutions. The tweet said the forms are required by the relevant financial institutions to carry out due diligence procedures in line with the Income Tax Regulations 2019. The government said failure to comply with the requirement to administer or execute this form attracts sanctions which may include monetary penalty or inability to operate the account. The self-certification form is in three categories, forms for entities, for individuals and controlling person; that is individuals having a controlling interest in a legal person, trustee.