President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki, the winner if Saturday’s election in Edo, urging him to show grace and humility in victory. Buhari, in a statement signed by Garba Shehu, his Senior Special Assistant on Media, also commended the election process in Edo State. The President said, “My commitment to free and fair elections is firm, because without free and fair elections, the foundation of our political and moral authority will be weak.” READ ALSO: INEC Declares Obaseki Winner Of Edo Election He said, “I have consistently advocated for free and fair elections in the country because it is the bedrock of true democratic order. “Democracy will mean nothing if the votes of the people don’t count or if their mandate is fraudulently tampered with.” He commended the people of Edo State, the parties, candidates and security agencies for conducting themselves responsibly. Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has been  declared the winner of Saturday’s governorship election by Akpofure Rim-Rukeh, the Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Petroleum. Declaring Obaseku winner just before 3pm on Sunday, Rim-Rukeh said Obaseki got 307,955 votes across 18 local government areas of the state while his main challenger, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), polled 223,619 votes. Of the 18 local governments of the state, Obaseki won in 13 local government areas leaving Ize-Iyamu with the remaining  five. Total votes cast were 550,242 while the total number of valid votes in the election was 537,407, and rejected votes – 12,835. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Obaseki Leading With Close To 90,000 Votes After 13 LGAs Obaseki also won in the local government area of the APC candidate. He was initially elected governor under the platform of the APC four years ago but defected to the opposition PDP after falling out with Adam’s Oshiomhole, the then APC chairman and failing to secure the party’s ticket for the governorship election. READ ALSO: Tinubu Begs Edo People To Reject Obaseki On Saturday The PDP welcomed him with open arms and paved the way for the governor, to become its party’s candidate for the September 19, 2020 election.