The federal government has further relaxed the late night curfew that was imposed as containment measures for the outbreak of coronavirus. The government imposed a total lockdown on movements in Lagos and Abuja to curb the spread of the coronavirus. It was not lifted until May 4, 2020 after which a nationwide curfew from 8pm to 6am was imposed. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records 216 New Cases Of COVID-19 The curfew was on June 2, 2020 relaxed to the hours between 10pm and 4am daily. The national coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Sani Aliyu, said at a media briefing on Thursday that the curfew, which replaced the total lockdown in several states, will be shortened by two hours. He said, “We are modifying the curfew to commence from 12 midnight to 4am nationwide, effective from 12:00 hours tonight. This does not apply to people on essential services and international travellers that might be returning from abroad.” Aliyu said, “In terms of other aspects of general movement, no formal restriction will be applied within the country but the risk remains there. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records Lowest COVID-19 Cases Since April 14 “For citizens in particular vulnerability groups, the elderly, those with underlying medical illnesses are strongly advised to continue keeping away from mass gatherings and general public and staying at home.” He added, “We will be engaging closely with state governments with regards to the issue of compliance, particularly with face masks because we remain quite concerned about the low level of compliance with this simple intervention measure that we know is quite effective.” Speaker of the House of Representatives,Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, has advocated an amicable settlement of trade disputes between Nigerians and their host communities in Ghana through arbitration and fair judicial processes. Gbajabimila made the call in a statement issued on Thursday after a ‘Legislative Diplomacy’ bilateral meeting with Ghanaian lawmakers and some top government officials as part of his ongoing visit to Ghana to resolve the crisis. The Speaker also made some far-reaching proposals that would bring an end to the attacks on Nigerian traders doing business in Ghana. READ ALSO: Diplomatic Row: Gbajabiamila Visits Buhari, Heads For Ghana Wednesday Gbajabimila said he would be glad to champion a law to improve the bilateral trade relations between Nigeria and Ghana, saying that citizens of the two countries remain brothers and sisters. He called on Ghanaian authorities to revisit the component of the law that requires a capital base of $1 million for businesses to start, saying as Africans, Ghana should encourage brotherliness. “First, amicable settlement of trade disputes through arbitration and fair judicial processes. In this context, we do believe that it is the sovereign right of the government of Ghana to pass and implement the GIPC Act. “We would implore you to explore alternative and less aggressive options of engaging, sanctioning and relating with our traders and business people who operate in your country, pay taxes and contribute to the development of both our nations. “Secondly, we would encourage you to revisit the component of the law that requires a capital base of $1,000,000. “We are all Africans, we all have towns and villages, and we know only too well that majority of our traders across the continent are petty traders. READ ALSO: Jollof Rice, Akufo-Addo And Other Things We Don’t Like About Ghana “The prospect of them being able to raise a capital base of $1,000,000 before they can trade in goods that may be worth less than $1,000, clearly is a major challenge. “Thirdly, one of the things we are all proud about and the common surname that we all bear is ‘ECOWAS’ and as you know, by virtue of being ECOWAS countries, our nations and our citizens should be able to live, work and thrive in any of our nations without any form of hindrance or discrimination,” he said. He encouraged Ghanaian authorities to explore the principles and the application of ECOWAS protocols which both countries are signatories to. Gbajabimila said that it is important to strengthen legislative diplomacy and collaboration between both countries.