Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State on Wednesday signed the State Penal Code (Amendment) Law 2020, which provides stiff penalty for rapists. The law provides surgical castration and removal of Fallopian tubes for male and female convicts respectively upon conviction of raping a child. The principal law, the Penal Code Law No. 5 of Kaduna State 2017, was amended by substituting Section 258, to now provide that, “whoever commits rape of a child below the age of fourteen (14) years shall on conviction, be punished with Surgical Castration and death. READ ALSO: Kaduna First Lady, Hadiza el-Rufai Apologises Over Son’s Gang-Rape Threat “Whoever has sexual intercourse with a male child below the age of fourteen years shall be punished with surgical castration and death. “Where a female adult is convicted for the offence of rape of a child, the Court shall punish the accused with Bilateral Salpingectomy and death. “Where the victim is above fourteen years, the Court shall on conviction sentence the accused with a punishment of surgical castration and life imprisonment. “Where the convict is a child, the Court shall order as appropriate under the Children and Young Person Law Cap 26 Laws of Kaduna State 1991. READ ALSO: Kogi Commissioner Charged With Rape In Abuja Court “Where the victim is a child, the Court shall in addition to the conviction, order that the convict be listed in the Sex Offenders Register to be published by the Attorney General. “Where the Court is trying the offence of rape involving a child below the age of fourteen years, corroboration of a medical report shall be necessary.” (NAN) The Minster of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, on Wednesday appraised the nation’s economy and concluded that it posted better results than expected, despite the hit it got from the raging COVID-19 pandemic. She said latest reports by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) indicated that the economy did not perform as badly as had been feared. The minister explained her position further, “We presented a memo to council in respect of the second quarter GDP report, earlier released by the National Bureau of Statistics on the 24th of August. “Why the memo is so dated is because there was a retreat last week and we couldn’t get scheduled as well. Still for us, the information is important and topical. READ ALSO: Fears Of Recession As Nigeria’s Economy Shrinks Further “The GDP report shows that the economy went into negative growth of -6.10% in the second quarter but that the aggregate performance for half year 2020 is -2.1%. This performance of -6.10% is a good performance in the sense that it is better than what we have projected second quarter performance to be at -7.2%. “This performance also is a good performance because it outperformed the projections that had been done by the Brentwood institutions. But it also outperformed very developed economies of the world and also economies that are comparable to us. “The US for example went into negative growth of 33% for the second quarter 2020 and 19% half year 2020. Similarly, the UK, Canada, Italy and several countries of the world all went into very significant negative growth. “So, Nigeria’s economy has shown some level of resilience in this level of performance. “We also reported to council that even though out of the 46 sectors of the economy, 30 of these sectors showed negative growth, but there were still some sectors that were growing on the positive territory. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s Inflation Rate Hits 13.22% “These sectors include agriculture as well as financial services and the ICT services. This is actually showing that even during the COVID era, there were still some sectors that stood firm and indeed were growing. “The inflation was also reported to be moving up gradually, capital importation did not dry up despite the lockdowns and the difficulties all countries experienced. But this is reflected by the significant decline in capital importation into the country. “Exchange rate has moved up from $326 at the beginning of the quarter to $367. Again this is reflecting some of the policies that government had to take to ensure that the economy remain in a stable condition. “In addition to the roll out of the economic sustainability plan, which had seen us starting to implement major public works across the country, to ensure that people are employed or kept in jobs, this ESP improve support for small businesses including payroll support so that people are not finding themselves unemployed or small businesses are not closing down.”