Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, said he had expected better preparations from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the Saturday’s governorship poll, after queueing for over an hour before voting. Obaseki, who is the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the election, stated this, shortly after he cast his vote  at 11:48a.m, having joinied the queue for hand washing at 10:24a.m. According to him, to wait for one and half hours on the queue before exercising his franchise is a bit disappointing. “Given that this is a sole day election,I expected a bit more planning and preparation, and resources should have been put into this election. READ ALSO: INEC Chairman Warns Staff Against Taking Sides In Edo Election “During the last presidential election in my polling unit, there were two polling points which helped the body on voters. You all are witnesses of how long this has taken. “The card reader is working very slowly, and this is the situation in all the major voting centers in Oredo Local Government Area of the state as I speak. “In Garrick Memorial Secondary School, I understand that over 500 voters are already stranded because they can’t vote because of the slow processing of the card readers. “One would have expected that INEC will have deployed more card readers and more voting points in highly numbered polling centers,” he said. On the issue of vote buying at polling units, the governor said that the security agencies were not doing what they assured Edo people and Nigerians of, before the election. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Card Readers Fail In Esan West Central “The security agencies assured us that they won’t allow anybody who don’t have business of voting in a particular place to be there, but they are working on the contrary to what they promised us. “You can see cars parked with a lot of cash being disbursed to people and it seems to be normal practice, but we are not perturbed. People know what to do; cash can’t buy their future,” he added. (NAN) Ruth Bader Ginsburg  a liberal Supreme Court justice in the United States of Americ has died after 27 years in the country’s highest court. Ginsburg, Reuters reported, died on Friday at age 87 of complications from pancreatic cancer. Her death could upend the upcoming presidential elections in the US as it raises passion on both the left and the right of the political spectrum in the fight to replace her. Conversative and religious voter who are not keen on reflecting Donald Trump may be motivated to vote for him so as to strengthen the balance of power in favour of conservative judges in the highest court, for decades to comes. Justices in the US Supreme Court, once appointed, serve for life.
Ginsberg was a an advocate for women’s rights – winning major gender-discrimination cases before the Supreme Court – before being appointed to the top US judicial body by Democratic President Bill Clinton in 1993. The diminutive dynamo became the court’s leading liberal voice. She became only the second woman ever to serve on the nine-member Supreme Court. Her small stature – she stood 5-foot, 1-inch tall (155 cm) – and frailty in later years belied an outsize persona and clout. Fans called her “The Notorious R.B.G.,” inspired by the late American rapper The Notorious B.I.G. Ginsburg was a reliable vote in favor of liberal causes on the court on other issues as well including defending abortion rights, expanding gay rights, preserving the Obamacare healthcare law, and advancing the rights of racial minorities the poor and disenfranchised. Her death gives Republican President Donald Trump the opportunity to make his third appointment to the court and expand its conservative majority to 6-3. Ginsburg had experienced a series of health issues. In July she disclosed she had a recurrence of cancer after bouts with pancreatic cancer in 2019 and 2009. She also survived bouts with lung cancer in 2018 and colon cancer in 1999. President Jimmy Carter made Ginsburg a federal appellate judge in 1980 and Clinton elevated her to the Supreme Court 13 years later. She joined Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, who became the first woman justice in 1981, on the bench. During her tenure, two more women were named to the high court: Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.