Popular Nigerian On-Air-Personality and Religious Activist, Daddy Freeze, has questioned why the Nigerian Police, despite laws criminalising against hate speech and threatening human life have remained silent to the threats made to his life by Pastor David Ibiyeomie of the Salvation Ministries. Daddy Freeze, whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde, is also the founder of the Free Nation In Christ Online Church. Ibiyeomie had in a viral video on Monday called Daddy Freeze, “a bastard”, “son of a Somalian” and threatended to “tear him to pieces”, if Daddy Freeze once again insulted Bishop David Oyedepo of Winners Chapel. READ ALSO: Daddy Freeze Is Our Conscience In his own video released on Tuesday, Daddy Freeze said, “I also need to draw the attention of the public, and the law enforcement to the threat of life that was issued to me in that video. Pastor ibiyomi, I don’t know if you realize that the threat to life is a criminal offense.” He said, “And let it be on record that you threatened my life. Is this how Nigeria is going to accept this? If anything happens to me, I hope you know who to hold responsible. This has been on social media space for 24 hours now. I am yet to hear anything from the police. “What happened to our laws on hate speech, racism, discriminatory statement, threat to life which is actually criminal. What happened to all this? Are we going to keep quiet and let this be because it is coming from a pastor?” Earlier in the video, Daddy Freeze said, “This video is in response to a viral video that David Ibiyeomie did, supposedly yesterday. “And here is my response. I want to show you vie this medium that even with a gun to my head, I will still preach the truth, and nothing but the truth; the truth about Christ, the truth about the scriptures.” He said, “I didn’t insult Bishop David Oyedepo. He quoted from the Book of Efficient, chapter, verse 22 and I drew his attention to verse 21. Correcting, scripturally, is not an insult. “I find it very devastating, that just to get to me, Pastor Ibiyeomie, he will drag the whole Somalian nation. I am very proud to associate myself with Somalians and Somalia because they are beautiful people, beautiful Africans like you and I. READ ALSO: Oyedepo and The Perils of Satire Daddy Freeze said, “It is hate speech to undermine them with derogatory words, is he not just a Somalian, like there is something wrong with being Somalian. “To all my followers and fans in Somalia, I love you all and I am proud to be associated with you even though by birth, I am not Somalian. My mom is European and my father is Yoruba.” In the video where Ibiyeomie spoke about Daddy Freeze, he said, “That bastard, do they know his father? Does Daddy Freeze have a father? Who is his father, that half cast born by a Somalian. “The day I hear him insult anybody again, I will deal with him. Oyedepo may not talk, but I can’t be alive, he will insult my father. Who gave birth to him? If he has a father, let him show us his father’s picture. Somebody they gave birth to in the ship.” Ibiyeomie said, “Does he look like a Nigerian? That is a Somalian Oyedepo may not talk, but I can’t be alive and he will insult my father. I curse the day he was born. I can’t be alive. I will tear you to pieces.”