Retail outlets for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) have begun adjusting their pump price for the product following recommendations by the association of independent marketers to sell at N162 per litre. The Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) had on Wednesday increased the depot price of PMS to N151.60 from the previous price of N138.62. The Independent Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) however recommended the pump price adjustment without the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) releasing a template reflecting the pricing regime. READ ALSO: PPMC Raises Petrol Depot Price To N151.56 Per Litre The IPMAN national vice president, Alhaji Abubakar Maigandi, had on Wednesday said that marketers would sell the product for between N158 to N160 per litre. Checks by The Interview on Thursday show several petrol stations across different parts of the world the country are now selling PMS between anything from N158 and N162 per litre. Late on Wednesday, several hours after PPMC increased the depot price to N152.60, many petrol stations around the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and surrounding areas had yet to adjust the pump price. By Thursday morning, however a number of station were already selling at N162 per litre while others sold at a lower price. A Customary Court in Mapo, Oyo, on Thursday dissolved the 29-year-old union between a teacher, Mrs Iyabo Amusan and her partner, Joseph over domestic violence. Delivering judgment, Chief Ademola Odunade, the President of the court held that the “centre could no longer hold due to threat to life. “The court is duty bound to ensure peace and harmony and it is in that light that the union between Iyabo and Joseph has ceased to be. “The children are free to relate with any of the parents since they are all grown ups. “Joseph is ordered to vacate the house since it doesn’t belong to him,” the Arbitrator said. Earlier in August, Amusan, petitioned the court alleging that her husband might kill her if something urgent was not done. “My husband blackmails and hits me. “If I had known that Joseph would turn into a monster, I would not have exchanged marital vows with him. “At my old age, he still kicks and slaps me. He even raises dangerous objets on me. “He strips me naked in front of the children. “In fact, Joseph inflicted matchet cut on my arm recently and I was hospitalised. “Besides, my husband is not a responsible man. I paid for our accommodation, he has not shown interest in the future of the children by not giving them education. “Please, free me from his oppression,” Iyabo cried. The respondent, a panel beater, consented to the suit but denied that he ever hit her. The 60 year-old man however, told the court that he contributed N20,000 as part of the house rent. (NAN)