At least 16 persons were injured in a gas tanker explosion in the Ifako-Ijaiye area of Lagos on Thursday. No deaths were however reported. Olatunde Akinsanya, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) director of operations, who visited the scene told journalists there that the explosion was caused a dispute between a truck driver and his supervisor at Mana Gas Plant. He said that 16 persons were injured with no deaths. Akinsanya said, “Investigation revealed that there was a dispute between Mana gas and the truck owner who brought the gas to them because the seal has been tampered with.” He said, “There used to be a manufacturer seal from the place it is been loaded. So this supervisor at Mana gas who is to take custody of the gas said it has been tampered with so he is not going to take it. So it was with that annoyance the driver of the truck was coming out of this axis and suddenly the front tyre burst. “In the process, the gear section hit the concrete and there was a spark. It was this spark that provoked gas explosion along the seal that had been tampered with. “Of course, there has been gradual leakage on its way from Mana to this point. I hope if there hadn’t been any gradual leakage or the seal had not been tampered we would not have had this kind of explosion.” He said, “An attempt to move the vehicle out plunged the vehicle into that drainage and subsequently there was the second explosion. It was the first leakage that caused a gradual explosion but when the heat denegerated to a large extent. “So the first explosion had given signal to the people around. If not, the casualty will be about 100 because along this corridor we have people that are welders, mechanics, carpenters, there is an event centre too.” The official said, “So around 400 people were at the scene when it happened but the first explosion gave the first warning which led many people to run away. “However, the impact of the explosion got to the point of about 300 radius from here which means that about 300 meters away from here, the impact of the explosion was heavily felt.” past 3pm, indicating that an LP gas explosion occurred along Iju-Ishaga road.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Wednesday reported two COVID-19 deaths and 111 new cases of the coronavirus disease. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases on Nigeria now stands 57,724, while 48,985 patients have been discharged. The total death toll of the Coronavirus disease in Nigeria now stands at 1,102. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Death Toll Hits 1,100 Lagos State recorded the highest number of new cases with 31 infections. Gombe and Kaduna states reported 18 cases each. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 15, Rivers recorded 14, Imo reported, Kwara and Oyo states had three each, while Bayelsa and Ogun states had two each. Edo and Osun states recorded one case each.