The COVID-19 pandemic is likely to cost club football $14bn (about N5.4 trn) this year worldwide, a leading official at global football body FIFA said on Wednesday. Olli Rehn, who heads the FIFA committee set up to tackle the effects of the pandemic, said the cost was around one third of its value. He added that FIFA, along with financial consultants, had estimated the club game to be worth between $40bn billion dollars and $45bn worldwide. Rehn said the figure of $14bn was based on the current scenario, where football is slowly restarting after a three-month hiatus earlier this year. But the FIFA official stated that it would be a “different ball game” if the pandemic did not let up. READ ALSO: COVID-19: UEFA Refunding Broadcasters N259bn For Matches Not Played “Football has been hit very hard by the coronavirus pandemic,” Rehn, a former EU commissioner and now governor of the Bank of Finland, said. “It has created plenty of turmoil at different levels with some professional clubs facing very serious difficulties. “I’m also very concerned about youth academies and lower division clubs.” Rehn said that football in South America had been especially hard hit, while Africa and Asia were also a concern. “It is a real danger that the good work that has been done developing football in Asia and Africa could be ruined. So, we want to soften the blow and maintain the development that has been done,” he said. FIFA has allocated $1.5bn to help tackle the effects of the pandemic and Rehn said 150 of the 211 member-associations had so far applied for funds. He said that, while football was slowly re-awakening, another downturn could not be ruled out. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Balloon d’Or Award 2020 Cancelled “The critical thing will be whether a vaccine will be developed and can be used, and that we have medical and other means to fully contain and tame the pandemic, and that is uncertain,” Rehn said. “We cannot rule out worse developments and that would be another ball game if the pandemic were to continue in a severe form next year. Now we are working on the basis of the current scenario.” (NAN) The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has committed to the execution of the counterpart Funding Agreements with the Licensed InfraCo to facilitate increase in fibre deployment in the country and ensure, at least one Point of Access (PoA) in each of the 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Nigeria to enhance digital transformation. The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta made the commitment recently while explaining to media executives, the Commission’s plan for the next five years of his leadership. Danbatta said, “Our plan for the increased growth of telecom in Nigeria is clear. We will leave no stones unturned, we will not on oars to ensure we achieve our goals. “We have our job cut out for us and we will start with broadband because that is the key to touching the lives of every Nigerian.  We hope to take broadband penetration to 70 per cent to at least 90 percent of the population by 2025 in line with new target in the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NBBP), 2020-2025.” Danbatta said, “We want to continue to protect consumers and ensure they have value for their money. We want to continue to support and fast-track the digital economy drive of the Federal Government of Nigeria and this has led to the creation of a Digital Economy Department in the Commission. “The Commission is placing emphasis on growing the digital economy in collaboration with sister agencies under the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy (FMoCDE).” Danbatta said he hoped to consolidate on spectrum trading to ensure maximum and efficient usage of available frequencies; continuous SIM registration audit to provide security and curtail incidences of banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery; completion and commissioning of Emergency Communications Centres (ECCs) in the remaining states to enhance security and provide relief to citizens in distress.