Under the new Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) 2020 being considered by the National Assembly, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) will become a incorporated as a private company with the Ministry of Finance retaining all the shares on behalf of the federal government. The Bill, which has been transmitted to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari according to reports in the Punch, will see the NNPC as presently structured scrapped. Also expected to be scrapped will be the the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA). In place of NNPC will be a new company, with the same name but the new structure will be signifiied. READ ALSO: NNPC Plans CNG Refilling Plants Across Nigeria NNPC Limited will be incorporated by the Minister of Petroleum, who together with his finance counterparts, will determine NNPC’s assets and liabilities that will be inherited by the new firm. The new bill reads, “NNPC shall cease to exist after its remaining  interests and liabilities other than its interests, assets, and liabilities transferred to NNPC Limited or its subsidiaries under subsection 1 of this section shall have been extinguished or transferred to the government.” According to Section  53  of the bill,  the minister shall “within six months from the commencement of this Act, cause to be incorporated under the Companies and Allied Matters Act, a limited liability company, which shall be called Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC Limited. A federal high court i  Abuja has found Senator Elisha Abo, representing Adamawa North guilty of assaulting Osimibibra Warmate during an encounter in sex toy  shop back in 2019. In the civil case filed by Warmate’s legal representatives, Samira Bature, the judge in the case ordered the senator to pay N50 million in damages to Osimibibra Warmate. Abbo had been charged for the assault in 2019 in a criminal case filed by the police at a magistrate court in Zuba,. The magistrate who held the case then, Abdullahi Ilelah, however dismissed the case for lack of diligent prosecution by the police. READ ALSO: ‘Senator Elisha Abbo Can’t Be Our Patron,’ Actors Guild of Nigeria Members Insist Warmate then filed a civil law suit before an Abuja high court. Her lawyers, Lugard Tare-Otu and Nelson posted a statement of the verdict on twitter saying, ”Remember that video of a Nigerian senator slapping/assaulting a young lady at a shop? “Well justice was served today with the court slamming the sum of N50M against the Senator. I am delighted to have represented that young lady in this suit. We say no more to oppression.”