To kick of ceremonies marking Nigeria”s 60-year anniversary, President Muhammadu Buhari will for the first time in his presidency make the October 1 address from Eagle Square. Special Adviser to the President on Media, Femi Adesina, said in a statement on Wednesday that the event would be covered live on state television and radio. He said, “As part of activities commemorating the 60th Independence anniversary of the country, President Muhammadu Buhari will address the nation from the Eagle Square, Abuja, on Thursday, October 1, 2020.” Adesina said, “The live address will commence after the Anniversary Parade beginning at 10am which will be covered by major television and radio stations especially the network services of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN). “Please note that in view of the open-air live address, the traditional early morning October 1 Presidential Broadcast will not feature on Thursday.” Professor Mu’azu Bashir will head a 15-member Evaluation Committee set up the Nigerian Communications Commission for the assessment of the 2020 Telecommunications based research from Academics in the Nigerian tertiary institutions. The Committee was inaugurated by the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, on September 24, 2020 at NCC’s head office in Abuja. Bashir, is a professor of Computer and Control Engineering and Head of Computer Engineering Department at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. A statement by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of Public Affairs, quoted Danbatta as saying, during the inauguration that the initiative speaks to the Commission’s commitment towards encouraging the development of indigenous innovative solutions that impact not only the Telecom industry/ICT sector positively but also the nation as a whole. The NCC chief executive said, “We want to continuously support research projects that can lead to the development of new products and services in the industry as the key enabler of the nation’s digital economy. We are all aware of the appreciable contributions of the Nigerian Telecommunication sector to the growth of our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) over the years, which peaked at 14.53 per cent in second quarter of 2020. READ ALSO: NCC To Expand ICT Infrastructure Across Nigeria He said, “the Commission understands that funding Research and Development (R&D) is fundamental to ensuring that the needs of consumers are properly anticipated and met while enabling sustainable economic growth, adding that the Digital Economy-based Research Innovations project underlines the importance of funding R&D. “For the year 2020, the request for proposals was tailored to providing innovations and solving challenges in five emerging areas of technology. These include innovative clean energy technology; 5G deployment in Nigeria; Internet of Things (IoT), low power Wide Area Network (WAN) technology; advanced methods of Quality of Service (QoS) and Quality of Experience (QoE) management and test mechanism as well as monitoring and localisation of drones.” While emphasising the importance of telecommunication/ICT industry to innovative developments and transformations within the economy, Danbatta tasked members of the Committee to thoroughly evaluate all submissions in order to sieve, identify and select the best from the proposals submitted. READ ALSO: NCC Commits To One Point Of Access In Each Of 774 LGAs “Members of this Committee have been carefully selected from the Academia, related government institutions and the industry based on their pedigree. I have no doubt in my mind that you will carry out the assignment to the highest acceptable standards,” the EVC said. The Committee is expected to carry out the assignment and submit its report within four (4) weeks from the day of inauguration.