The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Danbatta, said the Commission has so far awarded at least N336.4 million as research grants to the academia and has endowed professorial chairs in two Nigerian universities. Danbatta spoke recently during an interactive session with selected media organisations to explain his stewardship of the country top regulatory agency. In recognition of the fundamental role of research in innovation, Danbatta said that in 2016, the Commission created a Research and Development Department. The NCC chief executive said, the department has continued to collaborate with the academia to support the development of innovative services and life-changing solutions with the use of Information and Communications Technologies (ICTs) to promote Indigenous Content Development. READ ALSO: NCC Presents N9m In Grants To 3 Startups More importantly, he said, “we have empowered Nigerian youths by promoting their ingenuity and innovation in the development of locally-relevant technology solutions. “The latest of such was the 2020 NCC Virtual Hackathon, where we gave N9 million in grant to three top promising tech startups for solutions aimed at addressing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and epidemic diseases in the thematic areas of Health, Community, Productivity, Economy and Transportation.” Danbatta said, “the Commission recognizes that the key to the survival and growth of the telecommunications industry in Nigeria is sustained investments.” READ ALSO: How NCC Raised Broadband Penetration To 42% – Danbatta He said, “In the last five years, the Commission has deliberately and consistently engaged investors in different fora to attract Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs). We showed investors the Commission’s roadmap for Broadband, which includes the Open Access Model Initiative, the Infraco Project, our 5G readiness and the Access Gaps for market opportunities that new entrants could leverage on in the Nigeria’s telecom space. “To build confidence in the sector and ensure that current investors and new players flourish, the NCC has activated mandatory compliance to the Code of Corporate Governance for the telecoms industry. This initiative seeks to further strengthen telecoms entities, sustain sector’s role as a driver of economic growth and social transformation, and attract investments.” Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State has pledged to immortalise late Super Eagles legend, Rashidi Yekini, by naming the Kwara State Sports Stadium in Ilorin after him. The governor disclosed this on Thursday in Abuja when he paid a courtesy visit to the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, in his office. He said the process was underway to rename the stadium after the former Super Eagles gangling striker, an indigene of the state. “We will send a bill to the State House of Assembly to immortalise Rashidi Yekini with the name of the stadium changing after the approval,” AbdulRazaq said. Earlier, Dare said the ministry had written series of letters to the Kwara Government on the need to immortalise the football icon. Dare urged the governor to sustain his support for sports development as it was a veritable tool for engaging the youth and reducing social vices in the country. READ ALSO: Rasheed Yekini, Sam Okwaraji’s Mothers To Receive N30,000 Monthly – NFF “I want to thank his excellency for hosting our biggest youth games in Ilorin, let me inform you that we are coming to Ilorin again because of the facilities at University of Ilorin, soonest we will be around for the youth games. “I love the fact that the governor also loves sport, I want to encourage your excellency to invest more on sports,” he added. The minister also discussed several ways of developing youth and sports with the governor in line with international best practices. Rashidi Yekini who hails from Kwara, died on May 4, 2012 in Ibadan at the age of 48. He began his professional career at UNTL Kaduna in 1981, then played on the continent before moving to Europe, where he enjoyed a successful four-year spell at Vitoria Setubal in Portugal where he was the Primeira Liga’s top scorer in the 1993-94 season. Yekini scored 37 goals as a Nigerian international, and represented the nation in five major tournaments, including two World Cups where he scored the country’s first-ever goal in the competition. He was also named the African Footballer of the Year in 1993. (NAN)