The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday reported 160 new cases of COVID-19 infections in the country. The NCDC also reported two more deaths due to the Coronavirus disease,  which 90 more patients were discharged from treatment centres. Nigeria now has a total of 56,177 confirmed cases of COVID-19, while 44,088 patients have been discharged and 1,078 deaths reported. Topping the list of new cases, were the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Plateau State with 39 infections each. Lagos State had 30 new cases. In Kaduna State, there were 23 new cases, seven in Katsina State, six each in Rivers and Oyo states, three each in Yobe and Benue states, and one each in Bayelsa, Abia, Edo and Ekiti states. The Kaduna State Internal Revenue Service (KADIRS), says the state government has concluded plans to shut down illegal motor parks across the state, as part of efforts to improve Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). The Executive Chairman of the service, Dr. Zaid Abubakar, made this known in an interview with journalists in Kaduna on Saturday. Abubakar noted with dismay the proliferation of illegal motor parks across the state, adding that the responsible agencies in charge of parks and transportation would begin clamp down the parks by next week. “All illegal motor parks are going to be closed by the responsible agencies by next week, and revenues from the parks will increase because there will be centralisation of collection. “At the moment; we are not getting the revenues we are supposed to get from the parks because they are operating illegally. “The closure will, therefore, improve our collection efficiency,” he said. According to him, the revenue agency will fully implement the state tax law to ensure that all businesses operating in the state pay the needed taxes to the state government. Abubakar advised taxpayers on voluntary compliance to their tax obligation to enable the government improve on security, provision of basic social services as well as execute viable development projects to improve the wellbeing of the people. “KADIRS will enforce compliance with the provisions of the law and strengthen revenue collection mechanisms in the state.”