The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 10 deaths and 239 new cases of COVID-19 in the country. The NCDC in its Tuesday update showed confirmed COVID-19 cases had grown to 54,247, while the number of deaths now stand at 1,023. READ ALSO: States Not Collecting Enough Samples, NCDC Warns As It Reports 143 New Infections A total of 42,010 patients have however recovered and discharged from hospital,  leaving just over 12,200 active cases. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Cases In Lagos Drop To 17, Lowest In Months Plateau State, which for eight days running has reported the highest number of new cases recorded 116 cases on Tuesday. The Federal Capital territory (FCT reported 33 new cases, while Lagos State, with 19 new infections has continued to witness a drop in new cases. READ ALSO: Nigeria Becomes Fourth In Africa To Report 1000 COVID-19 Deaths In Ekiti State, there were 12 new infections, 11 each in Kaduna and Ogun states, eight in Ebonyi State, seven in Benue State and five each in Abia and Delta states. Ondo State had four new infections, Edo State had three, Imo and Osun states had two each, while Bauchi State had one. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, will jet out to Ghana on Wednesday to meet with his Ghanaian counterpart, Mike Oquaye, over the current diplomatic row between Nigeria and Ghana concerning the maltreatment of Nigerian traders in the neighbouring West African country. He visited President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House on Tuesday to brief him on his mission to Ghana, following which he got Buhari’s nod. READ ALSO: Nigerian High Commission Attack: Ghana Will Pay For Damages – FG Ghana had shut the shops of some Nigerian traders and also imposed a $1m levy on business owners resident in the country. Ghana, said to be embittered by the Nigerian Government’s decision to close the country’s land borders, is reportedly hit by a drop in revenues. Last week, Nigeria’s Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, and his Ghanaian counterpart made media statements over the issue, signalling a brewing diplomatic row. READ ALSO: Ghanaian Government Orders Investigation Into Nigerian High Commission Accra Attack Recall also that last week, Gbajabiamila had kicked against the closure of the shops by Ghana, saying that the action breached the trade protocols of the Economic Community of West African States. Gbajabiamila, who called his scheduled trip to Ghana, a “Legislative Diplomacy”, told State House Correspondents that he would raise the closure of the shops with his colleague in Accra. He stated, “One of the issues we discussed today is that I am leaving for Ghana tomorrow to meet with the Speaker of the Parliament in Ghana to look at the issue on ground, as it affects our citizens, and to try and calm things down and see if there is a way forward. “I will meet with the speaker tomorrow, I informed the President and he is aware of every single step that we are taking all the way, and we hope that we will come to an amicable settlement one way or the other. “It is called Legislative Diplomacy. If you remember very well, during the days when I was the Leader of the House, I led a delegation to South Africa during the crisis there with Nigerians and we were able to accomplish quite a bit, to simmer things down at that time.” READ ALSO: Nigerian Government Wants Attack On High Commission In Ghana Investigated However, Gbajabiamila said he would not be making any specific demands while in Ghana. “No demands, we just going to discuss in the spirit of African parliaments and we will be looking at issues from time-to-time as they affect African countries and this is one of them”, the speaker added. Asked to give his clear position on the situation in Ghana, Gbajabiamila went diplomatic. He replied,  “I don’t want to make any statement at this time so that we don’t exacerbate matters. Like I said, we are looking for amicable solutions. The Ghanians have their take on what is going on, we have our own take. We will see how we can marry the two takes and come to a solution. “We are two strong West African countries and there must be symbiosis, we must work together. You don’t get anything from working at cross-purposes or knocking heads together. We must, at all times, as Africans, work as best as possible together and that is what this my trip is about.” When asked what Buhari told him at the closed-door meeting, the speaker responded, “He was happy, I believe all avenues must be explored; he believes it, he is a man of peace who believes every avenue for peace must be exploited, must be explored. Yeah, we are all on the same page.” Another leg of the speaker’s visit was to present the updated Legislative Agenda of the 9th House to the President.