Danbatta Wins 2019 Zik Prize On Leadership The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, has won the 2019 Zik Prize for the professional leadership category. Professor Pat Utomi, an advisory board member of the award made the announced in a webinar on Thursday, September 24, 2020. Along with Danbatta, another winner in the professional leadership category that was named is Kennedy Uzoka, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of United Bank for Africa (UBA). Utomi said, “Prof Umar Garba Danbatta is a square page in a square hole. An academic professor, Danbatta has, through the NCC, led the charge to drive Nigeria’s industrial revolution and knowledge-based economy leveraging telecommunications.” He said, “telecommunications’ contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Nigeria has grown by 70 per cent from 2015 to 2020, whilst broadband penetration has leaped from 8 percent to 42 percent, in the same period.” Utomi said, “His leadership has enhanced transparency and innovation in the sector, such that recently, NCC was acknowledged by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), as one of Africa’s foremost regulator,” he observed. Danbatta was nominated in a July 2020 letter, which was jointly signed by the Chairman of the Board, Senator Jubril Aminu, CON and Utomi. The letter described Danbatta as “an outstanding public servant, whose initiatives and reforms had contributed to Information and Communications Technology (ICT) playing a leading role in the socio-economic development of Nigeria.” Zik Prize was set up in 1994 in honour of the first President of Nigeria, late Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, with a view to encouraging and nurturing leadership in Africa and the diaspora. Among the past winners are: former President of Ghana, J. J. Rawligs (1995); Late Nelson Mandela, President Yonweri Muzeveni of Uganda and former Chairman of NCC’s Governing Board, Alhaji Ahmed Joda, among other illustrious leaders of the continent. This year’s other winners, include the Senate President, Dr. Ahmed Lawal and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustafa, who won in political leadership and public service categories, respectively. Others are Governor of Borno State, Babagana Umara Zulum, his counterpart from Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa and Oyo State Governor, Engr. Oluseyi Makinde, who won in good governance category. At least 16 persons were injured in a gas tanker explosion in the Ifako-Ijaiye area of Lagos on Thursday. No deaths were however reported. Olatunde Akinsanya, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) director of operations, who visited the scene told journalists there that the explosion was caused a dispute between a truck driver and his supervisor at Mana Gas Plant. He said that 16 persons were injured with no deaths. Akinsanya said, “Investigation revealed that there was a dispute between Mana gas and the truck owner who brought the gas to them because the seal has been tampered with.” He said, “There used to be a manufacturer seal from the place it is been loaded. So this supervisor at Mana gas who is to take custody of the gas said it has been tampered with so he is not going to take it. So it was with that annoyance the driver of the truck was coming out of this axis and suddenly the front tyre burst. “In the process, the gear section hit the concrete and there was a spark. It was this spark that provoked gas explosion along the seal that had been tampered with. “Of course, there has been gradual leakage on its way from Mana to this point. I hope if there hadn’t been any gradual leakage or the seal had not been tampered we would not have had this kind of explosion.” He said, “An attempt to move the vehicle out plunged the vehicle into that drainage and subsequently there was the second explosion. It was the first leakage that caused a gradual explosion but when the heat denegerated to a large extent. “So the first explosion had given signal to the people around. If not, the casualty will be about 100 because along this corridor we have people that are welders, mechanics, carpenters, there is an event centre too.” The official said, “So around 400 people were at the scene when it happened but the first explosion gave the first warning which led many people to run away. “However, the impact of the explosion got to the point of about 300 radius from here which means that about 300 meters away from here, the impact of the explosion was heavily felt.” past 3pm, indicating that an LP gas explosion occurred along Iju-Ishaga road.”