The Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, has said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was compromised by the People’s Democratic Party in the just concluded governorship election in Edo State. Uzodinma who was Deputy Chairman of the APC Edo State Governorship Campaign Council, rejected the results of the governorship election, which was won by Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the PDP. READ ALSO: INEC Chairman Warns Staff Against Taking Sides In Edo Election The Chief Press Secretary to Uzodinma, Oguwike Nwachuku said in a statement on Sunday that the governor’s position was that “the entire process in Edo State was marred by irregularities from officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) who sabotaged the system, making it difficult for the APC votes to count.” He described the conduct of INEC officials in the Edo Governorship Election as ‘shameful’. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Obaseki Disappointed With INEC, Security Agents According to the Imo governor, “the APC is already gathering evidence to proceed to the Election Petition Tribunal any moment from now, confident that the party will get judgment in due time.” He urged all APC faithful and party supporters to remain calm and law abiding, noting that what happened in Edo State is a sabotage to our hard-worn Democracy in Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki, the winner if Saturday’s election in Edo, urging him to show grace and humility in victory. Buhari, in a statement signed by Garba Shehu, his Senior Special Assistant on Media, also commended the election process in Edo State. The President said, “My commitment to free and fair elections is firm, because without free and fair elections, the foundation of our political and moral authority will be weak.” READ ALSO: INEC Declares Obaseki Winner Of Edo Election He said, “I have consistently advocated for free and fair elections in the country because it is the bedrock of true democratic order. “Democracy will mean nothing if the votes of the people don’t count or if their mandate is fraudulently tampered with.” He commended the people of Edo State, the parties, candidates and security agencies for conducting themselves responsibly.