The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 197 new cases of COVID-19 in the country and five more deaths due to the disease. NCDC in daily updates on Thursday also reported the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria to stand at 55,829 and 43,810 patients discharged. The total number of deaths recorded now stands at 1,075. While 13 states reported new cases, Plateau State reported the highest number with 83 infections, followed by Lagos State, which had 48. In Kaduna State, there were 17 new cases, 16 in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), 11 in Ogun State, seven in Katsina State and four cases in Imo State. There three new cases each in Edo and Nasarawa states, two in Rivers State and one case each in Bayelsa, Oyo and Osun states. Fire on Thursday razed down the headquarters of the Independence National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Akure, destroying about 5,141 card readers meant for the October 10 Ondo State governorship poll. The fire, which occurred at about 8.20 pm, gutted a large container housing the card readers. Men of the State Fire Service, who arrived at the scene at about 9:19 pm, became helpless when their equipment could not function. Mr. Festus Okoye, the INEC Commissioner in Charge of Information and Voter Education, confirmed the incident to newsmen in Akure. READ ALSO: INEC Introduces Election Result Viewing Portal He said that the fire destroyed 5,141 card readers meant for the upcoming governorship election in the state. Okoye, who gave assurance that the election would still go on, in spite of the incident, said that nothing would stop the poll. He said: “The fire occurred in a container, where the card readers for the election and those meant for the training of the supervising and presiding officers were stored. “It is unfortunate that we lost so many card readers but the incident would not in any way affect the conduct of the election. READ ALSO: The Tug Of War In Ondo “So, we are confident that this election will go on as scheduled. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and police have deployed more operatives to beef up security within the INEC premises. (NAN)