The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, has inaugurated a Ministerial Committee on herbal remedies and natural compounds towards developing a homegrown treatment for COVID-19 pandemic. The committee has eminent scientists and Fellows of the Nigerian Academy of Science (NAS) as members. Onu explained that the committee was set up to authenticate claims by researchers, scientists and traditional medicine practitioners on herbal remedies, natural compounds and non-pharmaceutical items for the treatment of the disease. He said that his ministry was making efforts toward the development of local remedy that could be deployed for the protection of Nigerians against the disease. READ ALSO: Buhari Receives Madagascar’s COVID Organics “We wish to reiterate that we promised N30 million financial reward to any Nigerian researcher, scientist or traditional medicine practitioner that develop an effective vaccine or cure for the disease. “It is important to note that this promise was made on Febuary 13, 2020, two weeks before the first case of COVID-19 was detected in Nigeria on Febuary 27, 2020,” Onu said. Onu charged the committee to vigorously scrutinise and evaluate all claims brought before it with a view to identifying remedies and natural compounds with the brightest prospects. He said that the quest for a homegrown remedy for COVID-19 was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s desire to diversify the economy. READ ALSO: Madagascar’s COVID-19 Organics Must Undergo Due Process – FG The minister emphasised that COVID-19 remained a significant threat to the health and well being of Nigerians as well as the economy, hence the need to develop a homegrown remedy or vaccine for the disease. Professor Emeritus Mosto Onuoha, Chairman of the committee, promised not to let Nigerians down. (NAN) The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has confirmed the killing of its two operatives on Monday at Mararaban Udege in Nasarawa State. The Corps Public Education Officer (CPEO), ACM Bisi Kazeem, who disclosed this in a statement in Abuja on Monday added that 10 others had been abducted. Kazeem noted that 26 personnel were reportedly attacked while traveling from Sokoto and Kebbi States Command of the Corps for a training programme at FRSC Academy, Udi, Enugu State. “They were attacked by bandits and kidnappers at Udege junction, along Mararaban-Udege between Adoka, Nasarawa state today Monday 14th September, 2020 at about 8am. “The Officers totalling 26 in number were travelling in two buses. “One of the Officers in the vehicle conveying the staff of the Corps reportedly died during the attack while another officer died in the hospital and six others were injured. “Eight escaped unhurt, 10 unaccounted for as they were allegedly kidnapped by the assailants, ” he said. The Corps Marshal, FRSC Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, had immediately reported the incident to relevant authorities for prompt rescue of the kidnapped staff while investigations to ensure that the assailants were brought to book was ongoing. Oyeyemi called on all staff of the Corps not to be deterred by this unfortunate incident. He assured that the Corps would work closely with relevant security agencies to ensure that the criminal elements were brought to book and justice was served while the missing personnel were found.