The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has said that people who were above 70 years needed to check their salvation if they were still afraid of death. Adeboye said this at the first Sunday Thanksgiving of the RCCG new year calender, held at the headquaters in Lagos on Sunday. “Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, old people were advised to stay at home and not come to church which is a good advice. “But if you are over 70 years of age and you are still afraid of death, then you should check your salvation,” he said. Adeboye, however, declared that no one would die, adding that everyone would live to declare the word of God. READ ALSO: We’re Working With Police To Bring Uwa’s Killers To Book – Pastor Adeboye He also declared that the Almighty God would turn down Coronavirus, adding that no virus would come near the children of God. “God will give us total victory on any virus. The Lord who has kept us to see September will keep us to see the new year,” he prayed. In his sermon, Adeboye told the congregation to always praise the Lord because He had done a lot for the country and everyone in particular. “When we remember some people we grew up with are dead, some are in prison, sick, and we are still alive, then we should have reasons to praise the Lord. “When we know we have the Almighty God, the conqueror of any virus by our side, then we have every reason to thank God. Everyone should continue to praise God for life,” he said. He urged those that had not given their lives to Christ to do so for them to get God’s blessings. (NAN) The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) says it has inaugurated a new Automatic Exchange of Information-Common Reporting Standard (AEOI-CRS) system for the use of financial institutions in the country. FIRS Director, Communications and Liaison, Mr Abdullahi Ahmad, said this a statement in Abuja on Sunday. Ahmad said the step was part of the service’s ongoing reforms to align the nation’s tax system with global standards. He quoted the Executive Chairman, FIRS, Mr. Muhammad Nami as calling on reporting financial institutions under the Income Tax (Common Reporting Standard) Regulations 2019 to enroll on the portal. READ ALSO: COVID-19: FG Seeks Upfront Tax Payments From Corporations “The Automatic Exchange of Information-Common Reporting Standard (AEOI-CRS) system portal is currently live, open and active. “Consequently, all Reporting Financial Institutions (Commercial Banks, Merchant Banks, Discount Houses, Mortgage and Development Banks, Insurance and Life Assurance Companies, Investment Advisers, Trustees, Asset Management Companies, Issuing Houses, Brokers/Dealers, etc) are invited to enroll on the AEOI-CRS porta,l” he said. He explained that each Reporting Financial Institution (FI) was required to designate an appropriate officer as Primary User (PU). According to him, the PU is the custodian of the FI’s login details on the portal. He said a letter signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the FI introducing the PU to the FIRS was also required as part of the enrolment process. “In order to enroll as a PU of an FI and have access to related AEOI-CRS documents, please visit the FIRS website at www.firs.gov.ng and navigate the menu tab on Automatic Exchange of Information. “Please do this only if relevant contact details have been forwarded to the FIRS. FIs are to further take notice that CRS reports for 2019 are due not later than 30th September 2020. “For further information, send enquiries to aeoi.enquiries@firs.gov.ng or sanya.gbonjubola@firs.gov.ng,” he said.