Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) says it invested $1.45bn in Nigerian Content Development (NCD) in 2019. The oil major made the disclosure in its 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, which was obtained by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Tuesday. The report said to demonstrate its commitment to NCD, Chevron Nigeria’s local content policy had been updated, such that it gave contracting preference to competent Nigerian companies. The document added that the policy also promoted technology transfer. It said, “Our investment in Nigerian content in 2019 was approximately $1.45 billion. “Of this amount, expenditure on materials and services obtained from local community contractors was approximately $358 million.” The report listed projects executed by Chevron Nigeria and its indigenous partners to include Escravos Export System Project and Okan Gas Gathering Compression Platform (GCCP) Debottlenecking project. It said other projects executed were the Meji GCCP Debottlenecking project and Consolidated Maintenance Workshop project. According to the report, 184 Nigerians benefited from quality training valued at over $5m in technical and professional skills in 2019. It said the company, with the support of the Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board (NCDMB), also trained over 200 community contractors to build local capacity and strengthen indigenous participation in the oil and gas industry. Commenting on the report, Mr. Jeffrey Ewing, Managing Director, Chevron Nigeria, said the company was focused on operational excellence and helping its host communities prosper. “We are committed to continually improving the quality of life of the people of Nigeria through our social investments and community engagement activities, ” Ewing said. (NAN) The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, says 438 active COVID-19 cases in the state have not come forward to receive treatment in the COVID-19 care centres. Abayomi disclosewd this in a  Twitter update @ProfAkinAbayomi, on Tuesday while giving the state’s COVID-19 update for September 12. READ ALSO: Lagos Health Commissioner, Akin Abayomi Beats COVID-19 He said that 48 new COVID-19 infections were confirmed out of a total of 915 COVID-19 tests conducted in the state on the reported day. According to him, the new cases bring the total number of confirmed COVID-19 infections in Lagos to 18,531. He added that the total number of COVID-19 tests conducted in the state since inception of the pandemic now stands at 92,206. Abayomi said, “2,407 of the confirmed cases have since been discharged from #COVID19 Care Centres following full recovery. READ ALSO: Each COVID-19 Severe Case May Gulp N1m Daily – Lagos Government “Also, 15,422 of the confirmed cases monitored in communities by #COVID19 Lagos Response Team have either fully recovered or positively responding to treatments, the commissioner said. He said that 59 of the cases were currently under isolation in public and private care centres. (NAN)