The United States’ Embassy in Nigeria has sent out a congratulatory message to the Independent National Electoral Commission on the success conduct and outcome of the governorship election in Edo, which was held on Saturday. The embassy in tweets on Tuesday also congratulated other stakeholders in the election including the security agencies, civil society groups and the two main contestants,  Governor Godwin Obaseki of the PDP and Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the APC for encouraging peace. There were fears the election, which was won by incumbent governor, Obaseki would end in violence and voter intimidation and the use of security forces to suppress opposition voters. READ ALSO: INEC Chairman Warns Staff Against Taking Sides In Edo Election Though there were reports of vote buying by both the PDP and APC, the election was largely violent free. Chairman of INEC on the eve of the election had also sent out a message to his staff urging them not to takes sides or give any undue advantage or one candidate or the other. In one tweet, the embassy said, “Congratulations @inecnigeria and Nigerian security services on the Edo governorship election. We commend the people of Edo State for exercising their franchise and recognize @GovernorObaseki & @PastorIzeIyamu for encouraging peace.” READ ALSO: INEC Declares Obaseki Winner Of Edo Election It also tweeted, “Thanks to civil society partners @YIAGA and @SituationRoomNg @cleenfoundation @KDI_ng for their invaluable work. #EdoDecides2020.” Peter Obi, vice presidential of the PDP in the 2019 presidential election, responded to the tweet by saying that the election would have turned violent without the embassy and calling on them to place a visa ban on former Lagos governor, Bola Tinubu. READ ALSO: FG Says Visa Ban On Electoral Offenders Disrespectful To Nigeria Obi wrote, “Thank you very much. Without you guys, the Edo elections would have been full of violence.
Please, this visa ban should be extended to @AsiwajuTinubu and his entire family.” Just before the election, the US embassy announced it was placing visa restrictions on individuals who undermined the electoral process in elections that took place in Bayelsa and Kogi states and was watching closely, the governorship election in Edo. Nigeria still has 7,677 active cases of COVID-19 in spite of recent drops in new cases, with Lagos State alone reporting 3,604 coronavirus patients on admission. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday reported 176 new cases of COVID-19 in the country. That brings the total number of confirmed cases to 57,613. READ ALSO: 438 Active COVID-19 Cases In Lagos Not Receiving Treatment 48,836 patients have been discharged, while 1,100 deaths have so far been recorded from the pandemic. According to the NCDC update, Lagos had the highest number of new cases with 73 infections, followed by Plateau State, which had 50 cases. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 17 new cases, Rivers State had eight, Ondo State had six, while Niger and Ogun states had five new infections each. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Lagos Reopens Cinemas, Gyms Edo and Kaduna states had three cases each, Oyo State had two, while Bauchi, Bayelsa, Delta and Nasarawa states had one each.