The Emir of Zaria, Shehu Idris, has died at the age of 84. Before his death, he was one of the longest serving first class emirs in Northern Nigeria, reigning for 45 years. Kaduna state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, in a tweet on Sunday announced the passing of the Emir. READ ALSO: Emir Of Biu, Mustafa-Aliyu Is Dead El-Rufai tweeted, “VERY SAD: It is with great sadness that I confirm the passing of the father of our state, His Highness Emir of Zazzau, Alh (Dr.) Shehu Idris CFR. He died at the 44 Military Hospital Kaduna today after a brief illness. Janazah prayer in Zaria is scheduled for 5pm in Sha Allah.” Shehu Idris was the 18th Fulani Emir of Zaria and was appointed on February 15, 1975. The Emir had reportedly been battling with an undisclosed ailment for close to a decade. Eight persons were on Saturday night burnt to death in a lone accident involving a Mazda bus on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Mr Ahmed Umar, the Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abeokuta on Sunday. Umar explained that the accident, which occurred at about 8:45 p.m. near Saapade bridge, was caused by tyre burst. This, he said, resulted in the bus summersaulting and bursting into flames. The sector commander added that 11 people were involved in the accident made up of three male adults, one female adult, one child and six unidentified persons. “The suspected cause of the lone accident involving the Mazda bus marked AAA 249 VX was tyre burst which led to loss of control before crash and bursting into flames immediately,” he said. He said that FRSC operatives contacted the Sagamu Fire Service immediately for a joint rescue  operation. Umar said that three injured victims were taken to Idera Hospital, Sagamu, for medical attention while the Health Department of Remo North Local Government Area was contacted on the burnt victims. He  advised motorists to drive cautiously, obey traffic rules and regulations and ensure that their tyres were in good condition. (NAN)