The Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, has advocated for the mentoring of youths to make them better future leaders in the country. Pantami made the call in an interview with journalists shortly after a mentorship engagement with the third cohort of Sir Kashim Ibrahim Fellows, on Tuesday in Kaduna. The minister commended the introduction of the Sir Kashim Fellows programme, especially the procedure in which participants were selected from across the country, based on merit. He said the programme which mentors young Nigerians on leadership roles, will go a long way in addressing many of the challenges the Country is experiencing. Pantami said the programme would bridge the gap between potential leaders and their mentors, because it gives avenue for experiences to be shared among them. “They are not just being briefed or given presentations but also given the opportunity to work and learn in public offices where they can interact with people and get experience,” he noted. He appreciated Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai’s cosmopolitan nature of giving every Nigerian an opportunity to participate in capacity building across all parastatals, ministries, departments and agencies of the State. He called on other State Governors to replicate such program in their states so as to give potential leaders from across the country a sense of belonging. Sixteen young Nigerians from 10 states are being trained under the Fellowship on leadership skills to enable them hold responsibilities in all facets of life. Also, El-Rufai appreciated the minister for engaging with the Fellows, noting that Pantami is a man of many talents not only in his area of expertise but also as a respected Islamic cleric. While rating him among the best performing ministers in the present administration, the governor said that Pantami “has taken a ministry that is a little bit sleepy and injected energy and life to it and upgraded it to the 21st century standards.” According to him, the minister has the vision to put Nigeria on the path of growth in the 21s century, and “a vision of ensuring that every part of our lives is based on a digital environment.” (NAN) The Alliance for the Survival of COVID-19 and Beyond, (ASCAB) has asked Nigerians to participate in the September 23 Day of Action in protest of the recent hike in the price of electricity and fuel. In a statement signed by its chairman human rights lawyer, Femi Falana, ASCAB said it would mobilise civil society to join the protest tagged “Enough is Enough” in suppport of working people and poor Nigerians who face the daily agony of survival. The statement was released on Tuesday, the same day ASCAB threw its weight behind the September 23 protest that was set by the Trade Union Congress. At the last general meeting of ASCAB, the TUC leadership had briefed the coalition on the decision of its NEC that fixed September 23 as a day of action. READ ALSO: Falana’s Group Insists Fuel Price Hike Is Illegal Falana on behalf of ASCAB said workers would show national solidarity and speak with one voice against the repressive policies of the federal and state governments. Falana said the protest would register public outcry against widespread hate killings, banditry, terrorism, illegal arrests and detension in the country which the Nigerian authorities have failed to address. He said, “We call on all Nigerians, workers, farmers, students, traders, the poor and the defenseless people alike, women, men, young and the aged to come out on September 23 to show their disdain against institutionalised poverty, hunger, deprivation and the the country’s slide into a cesspool of anomie in the face of violence and spineless killings” Falana in the statement said government policies had further impoverished Nigerians and fuel their desperation to survive even if it means breaking the law and the societal values. He noted the fuel hike at a period of COVID-19 pandemic when many workers have lost their jobs and millions are placed on half salary was wicked and inhuman. Falana made reference to the judgment of the Federal High court, in Aturu v. Minister of Petroleum Resources & ors, Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/591/2009, judgement indicated that any fuel hike other than that of the President is null and void. He said the Federal Government had not appealed the judgment and it remains subsisting and binding and as such, the deregulation of the downstream sector of the petroleum sector unconstitutional, illegal,  null and void. READ ALSO: Why Petrol Subsidy Had To End – Buhari “This will be done peacefully in communities, neighbourhoods, public streets. All the  80 affiliates of ASCAB in all areas or locations where they are based, including TUC affiliates nationwide are expected to participate in the protest. “Last year the price of crude was about $60 a barrel and the dollar was about N360.  Now the cost of crude is about $45 and a dollar is worth about N390.  So last year the cost of barrel of crude oil was about N22,000 a barrel and now it is only N17,500 a reduction of about 20 per cent.”