Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has been  declared the winner of Saturday’s governorship election by Akpofure Rim-Rukeh, the Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Petroleum. Declaring Obaseku winner just before 3pm on Sunday, Rim-Rukeh said Obaseki got 307,955 votes across 18 local government areas of the state while his main challenger, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), polled 223,619 votes. Of the 18 local governments of the state, Obaseki won in 13 local government areas leaving Ize-Iyamu with the remaining  five. Total votes cast were 550,242 while the total number of valid votes in the election was 537,407, and rejected votes – 12,835. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Obaseki Leading With Close To 90,000 Votes After 13 LGAs Obaseki also won in the local government area of the APC candidate. He was initially elected governor under the platform of the APC four years ago but defected to the opposition PDP after falling out with Adam’s Oshiomhole, the then APC chairman and failing to secure the party’s ticket for the governorship election. READ ALSO: Tinubu Begs Edo People To Reject Obaseki On Saturday The PDP welcomed him with open arms and paved the way for the governor, to become its party’s candidate for the September 19, 2020 election. The Emir of Zaria, Shehu Idris, has died at the age of 84. Before his death, he was one of the longest serving first class emirs in Northern Nigeria, reigning for 45 years. Kaduna state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, in a tweet on Sunday announced the passing of the Emir. READ ALSO: Emir Of Biu, Mustafa-Aliyu Is Dead El-Rufai tweeted, “VERY SAD: It is with great sadness that I confirm the passing of the father of our state, His Highness Emir of Zazzau, Alh (Dr.) Shehu Idris CFR. He died at the 44 Military Hospital Kaduna today after a brief illness. Janazah prayer in Zaria is scheduled for 5pm in Sha Allah.” Shehu Idris was the 18th Fulani Emir of Zaria and was appointed on February 15, 1975. The Emir had reportedly been battling with an undisclosed ailment for close to a decade.