President Muhammadu Buhari said on Thursday that Nigeria was committed to sustaining democracy in the West African sub-region and would continue to do so within its limits. He spoke in Abuja when he received visiting Burkinabe President, Roch Marc Christian Kabore, at the Presidential Villa. The Burkina Faso leader was on a one-day official visit to Nigeria, according to the State House. Buhari told his visitor, “We are keeping tabs on situations in countries that have elections ahead. We know the countries that are calm and the ones where there have been unfortunate casualties. “We will always support those who have elections ahead, so that things can go smoothly.” Burkina Faso has its legislative elections coming up later in November. Buhari made the pledge to consolidate democracy just days after he had urged African leaders not to exceed their constitutionally-fixed terms in office so as to avoid needless political tensions in their domains. Kabore heads the Economic, Trade and Liberalisation Scheme of Economic Community of West African States. He informed Buhari he was in Nigeria for talks on issues affecting the sub-region. The Burkinabe leader listed the issues to include “convening of a joint commission meeting between Nigeria and Burkina Faso, reported trade difficulties among Nigeria, Ghana, Republic of Benin, and Niger Republic, and the way forward.” Kabore, who also spoke on the raging COVID -19 pandemic, praised Buhari for putting much efforts to lead other ECOWAS countries to introduce measures to check the spread of the virus, being the Chairman of COVID-19 response in West Africa. He noted, “I must also applaud your strong leadership against terrorism in the sub-region.” Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, quoted Kabore as mentioning the crisis in Mali, saying that “we need cohesion all over West Africa.” He was optimistic that Tuesday’s summit held in Ghana on the Mali case, would help in fast-tracking efforts by the ECOWAS countries to return Mali to civil rule. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo had attended the summit in Accra on behalf of Nigeria. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and Senior Executives of telecommunication companies have held their bi-annual meeting on complaints management. For the very first time, it held virtually, in compliance with COVID-19 management protocols instituted by the Federal Government. Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, the director of public affairs in a statement on Thursday said the meeting focused on consumer relations and complaint management processes. The NCC and the telecom service providers, according to Adinde agreed that the compensation policy should be revisited and complied with at all times. He said, “This is to ensure full compliance with the new Complaint Categories and Service Level Agreement (CC/SLA) consented to by the NCC and the service providers in the telecommunication ecosystem.” Additionally, he said, it was decided that the Commission and telecom service providers will hold follow-up discussions on “Fair Usage Policy” on unlimited data bundles/data rollover, in order to provide a clearer explanation and better understanding of the processes and procedures of the policy for the benefit of the consumers. His said, “The Commission hereby wishes to restate that its direction of June 2018 to service providers to commence implementation of data rollover from 26 June 2018, remains in force. “In other words, a subscriber’s unused data must be rolled over to his/her subsequent data subscription. Therefore, the Commission urges service providers to continue to inform and educate subscribers on the procedures and processes for data rollover.” Service providers, Adinde said, also agreed to ensure that senior-level customer relations officers support their respective complaints management teams, to resolve complaints that were not resolved to the satisfaction of the consumers when such complaints were first reported. He said, “The service providers also promised to ensure that complaints are resolved in both the letter and spirit of the recently-reviewed Service Level Agreement (SLA). “With respect to services subscribed to through third parties (such as banks), which are not rendered, the meeting resolved that telecom service providers should explore initiating service level agreement with banks to ensure uniformity and speed in the resolution of complaints relating to billing.” Adinde said all parties to the meeting equally agreed that telecom service providers will carry out pervasive consumer education and enlightenment campaigns about their products and services to ensure their subscribers have the information they require to make informed decisions and get value for money spent.