The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Monday reported 143 new cases of COVID-19 infections, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 54,008. This is just as the NCDC has said the drop in new cases is mostly due to states not collecting enough rest samples. Head of Disease Surveillance for the NCDC, Elsie Ilori spoke on Monday at the coronavirus Presidential Task Force briefing in Abuja on Monday. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records Lowest COVID-19 Cases Since April 14 In the update posted on its website, NCDC put the number of discharged patients at 41,638 and the death toll at 1,013. Plateau State reported 35 new cases, the highest in the country. It was followed by Kaduna, which had 21 new infections. Lagos State reported 19 new infections, the FCT had 13, Ebonyi had nine, while Adamawa, Enugu and Katsina had seven each. READ ALSO: Plateau Records Highest Number Of COVID-19 Cases For Third Day Edo State reported six new infections, Kwara State reported five, Osun State had three, Anambra, Kano, Niger and Ogun states all had two each, while Benue, Borno and Sokoto states had one each. On the drop in testing, Ilori said, “In July, there were seven states with decreased samples collected, but unfortunately, in August, it increased to 32 states with decreased samples collection. In July, we had 13 states that actually collected over 1,000 samples. “For August, no state met that target. That means we had zero states collecting over 1,000 samples. For the local government areas, in July we had 515 that collected samples and it decreased to 478 in August. We can appreciate the decrease in August.” READ ALSO: Nigeria Becomes Fourth In Africa To Report 1000 COVID-19 Deaths He said, “In August, states with the biggest increase are Abia 682, Sokoto 331, Bayelsa 314, Zamfara 55 and Yobe 12, but the numbers are not significant at all.
“In the same month, the biggest decrease in sample collection are Kano 19,108, Lagos 13,146, Oyo 4,902, Edo 3,327, and FCT 3,322.” The commissioner of health in Lagos, Professor Akin Abayomi, has recovered from COVID-19 after testing negative over the weekend. The state’s commissioner of information, Gbenga Omotoso, in a statement on Sunday said Abayomi would return to work gradually. He said, “It is with gratitude to God that I announce the recovery and subsequent negative test for COVID-19 of the honourable commissioner for health, Akin Abayomi. Following the mandatory isolation, the commissioner retook a COVID-19 PCR test which returned negative yesterday evening. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Akin Abayomi, Lagos Health Commissioner Contracts COVID-19 “Abayomi is very grateful and humbled by the deep concern shown and expressed by executive council members, civil servants, Lagos residents, Nigerians, both locally and in the diaspora, through prayers, messages, phone calls and gifts. “He will be returning to his full duties gradually and remains resolute in delivering the mandate of Mr Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, whom he says stood by him steadfastly in these trying times and is very appreciative of. “Governor Sanwo-Olu, the incident commander, is excited by the news and urges Lagosians to realise that COVID-19 is still with us; they should keep obeying the guidelines- watching their hands, wearing face masks and avoiding large gatherings, among others.”