The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on Thursday began the distribution of sensitive election materials to the 18 Local Government Areas of Edo, ahead of the Saturday’s governorship election. The materials were distributed amidst tight security. READ ALSO: Tinubu Begs Edo People To Reject Obaseki On Saturday The exercise which took place at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Benin branch, was witnessed by political parties’ agents, accredited observers and journalists. Mr. Timidi Wariowei, INEC’s Head of Voter Education and Publicity in Edo, told journalists that the distribution of the materials had began with the farthest LGAs. READ ALSO: Edo Grudge Match Reaches Final Wariowei said, “So far we have loaded about 11 LGAs. We started from Akoko-Edo, Etsako Central, Owan East and Owan West among others. “Some have gone and others are completely loaded and are sorting out their security escort and very soon materials will move to all the local governments. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Nigerians Should Hold APC Responsible For Any Election Violence – Wike “From the local governments, the materials will move to Registration Areas Centres (RACs) and from the RACs they will move to the polling units and voting points on Saturday morning. He said that INEC was fully ready for the election, adding, “this is the high point of our preparation, that is moving the materials from the CBN to LGAs’’. (NAN) The United Nations Children’s Education Fund (UNICEF) says it tracked about 544,951 out of school children in Adamawa in 2019. Mr. Bhanu Pathak, UNICEF Chief of Field Office, Bauchi, said this at a ceremony to mark the commencement of reconstruction and rehabilitation of 80 schools in Adamawa, held in Fufore, headquarters of Fufore Local Government Area (LGA) of the state on Thursday. Pathak, however, said that about 94 per cent ( 514,743 )  of the children were returned to school after some efforts. He said that UNICEF partnership with the State Government in the education sector over the years had yielded positive results. READ ALSO: UN Asks Nigerian States To Domesticate Policy On Safe School “Among the positive partnership results are in 2029  about 544,951  out of school children were tracked in five LGAs ,where 94 per cent of the children were successful returned to school. ” Also, over 599,417 additional children were enroled into school as a result of  enrolment drive  in camps and host communities across the state. ” And today,  we are witnessing another important  flag off of project on renovation and reconstruction of 80 schools in Fufore and Guyuk LGAs before the end of 2020,” Pathak said. The field officer said that another set of schools would be considered  in additional four LGAs ultimately, to contribute to quality education in the state. He said the renovation and reconstruction of the schools was under the KFW project funded by German Government through UNICEF. Pathak urged the state government to release the N200m counterpart funding for the implementation all basic education intervention  in the state for 2020. Governor Ahmadu Fintiri  thanked  UNICEF for its efforts in ensuring that children in the state were  supported to get basic and quality education. Fintiri said  that  the enormous task before his administration was  to ensure that basic education was  made available to every child in state. READ ALSO: Parents Who Permit Almajiri Should Be Jailed For Life – Adnan Mukhtar “I am delighted to hear the progress report of the Chairman of the Board and I want to use this opportunity to thank the UNICEF and development partners on Basic Education in the state including the Universal Basic Education Board for sponsoring some of these laudable projects. “Our greatest asset is the children and educating them properly is the surest way to preserve the asset. “I want to use this opportunity to call on parents and community leaders to ensure that children are enroled in schools when schools resume,” Fintiri said. (NAN)