The Kaduna State Internal Revenue Service (KADIRS), says the state government has concluded plans to shut down illegal motor parks across the state, as part of efforts to improve Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). The Executive Chairman of the service, Dr. Zaid Abubakar, made this known in an interview with journalists in Kaduna on Saturday. Abubakar noted with dismay the proliferation of illegal motor parks across the state, adding that the responsible agencies in charge of parks and transportation would begin clamp down the parks by next week. “All illegal motor parks are going to be closed by the responsible agencies by next week, and revenues from the parks will increase because there will be centralisation of collection. “At the moment; we are not getting the revenues we are supposed to get from the parks because they are operating illegally. “The closure will, therefore, improve our collection efficiency,” he said. According to him, the revenue agency will fully implement the state tax law to ensure that all businesses operating in the state pay the needed taxes to the state government. Abubakar advised taxpayers on voluntary compliance to their tax obligation to enable the government improve on security, provision of basic social services as well as execute viable development projects to improve the wellbeing of the people. “KADIRS will enforce compliance with the provisions of the law and strengthen revenue collection mechanisms in the state.” Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said Nigeria is slowly drifting towards a failed state mainly due to the poor management of its diversity and socio-economic development. Obasanjo spoke in Abuja Thursday at a forum of socio-political groups from there different regions of the country. He delivered a paper, ‘Moving Nigeria Away from Tipping Over.’ Obasanjo said, “I do appreciate that you all feel sad and embarrassed as most of us feel as Nigerians with the situation we find ourselves in. “Today, Nigeria is fast drifting to a failed and badly divided state, economically our country is becoming a basket case and poverty capital of the world, and socially, we are firming up as an unwholesome and insecure country.” READ ALSO: Obasanjo Absent As Buhari, IBB, Jonathan, Others Meet, Ratify Ambrose Alli’s Pardon He said, “And these manifestations are the products of recent mismanagement of diversity and socio-economic development of our country. Old fault lines that were disappearing have opened up in greater fissures and with drums of hatred, disintegration and separation and accompanying choruses being heard loud and clear almost everywhere. “It would appear that anybody not dancing to the drum beat nor joining in chorus singing would be earmarked as ethnically unpatriotic or enemy of its tribe or geographical area. In short, the country is fast moving to the precipice.” But happily, he said, “I observed that the five socio-cultural political groups gathered “here have been getting together to find common ground, areas of agreement or accord for moving Nigeria away from tipping over.” Delivering a warning, the former president said, “let me say that we must remind those who are beating the drums of disintegration and singing choruses of bitterness, anger and separation that if even Nigeria is broken up, the separated parts will still be neighbours. “And they will have to find accommodation as neighbours or they will be ever at war. And those who prevent justice to be done, invite violence to reign.” READ ALSO: Kashamu Evaded Extradition But Couldn’t Escape Death – Olusegun Obasanjo He said, “With what I have seen, read and heard from the rapprochement that you are forging together, I see a ray of hope that Nigeria can be saved from disintegration. “If we are ready to live together in understanding, mutual respect and love with equity, justice, inclusiveness while engendering sense of belonging and unity of purpose and all hands on deck, we can deal with internal issues of terrorism, organised crimes, banditry, kidnapping, human trafficking, drug, money laundering and corruption. “We will then be able to deal successfully with any incoming attack of terrorism, organised crimes, etc, from outside.”