The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has taken over assets of Geedee Zulu Investment Ltd, which is owned by Frank Okwudili Ezuma and Lilian Ifeoma Ezuma over debts amounting to N4bn. The seizure followed the order of Honourable Justice M.S. Hassan of the Federal High Court, Lagos division. In compliance to the enforcement order, AMCON on Monday August 31, 2020 commenced the process of effective possession of the properties through its Debt Recovery Agent – Prime Chamber Law Firm. AMCON took over The takeover property at No. 4 Ekulu Close, GRA Enugu, Enugu State and property along Gborji Road, Aguluezechukwu in Anambra State. READ ALSO: AMCON Explores Ways To Recover Outstanding N5trn Jude Nwauzor, Head of Corporate Communications Department of the Corporation confirmed the takeover in a statement on Monday. He said all avenues of peaceful resolution were explored to no avail before AMCON made the decision to seek justice in the court of law. AMCON, he reiterated tried everything possible to let the obligor see reasons but noticed a deliberate disdain towards all previous engagements with the chief promoters of the enforced company. He said, “the case of Geedee Zulu Investment Limited and its promoters have been interminable since the loan was purchased by AMCON during the first phase of Eligible Bank Assets (EBA) purchases from Union Bank far back as 2011.” Nwauzor said, “Since the purchase of the EBA, AMCON has offered the obligor all manners of concessions and explored all avenues to resolve the debt harmoniously, but the obligor and his company Geedee Zulu Investment Limited have remained recalcitrant and unenthusiastic to repay the huge debt to AMCON. READ ALSO: FG May Inherit N5trn Debt Owed AMCON- Ahmed Kuru With no further option left, he said, the agency resorted to the court as mandated by the AMCON Act, which was amended by the 8th National Assembly and signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said, “The amended AMCON Act provides the Corporation additional powers to go after AMCON obligors especially those of them that have perfected the act of taking advantage of the shortcomings of the Act before its amendment.” The Nigerian Working Group on Peace building and Governance, which has John Cardinal Onaiyekan among its members has told President Muhammadu Buhari that Nigerians are suffering, asking him to address issues of insecurity. In the statement which was signed by Attahiru Jega, a former chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission and several other members, the group said it had engaged in series of consultations with a diverse group of stakeholders and policymakers. It asked that national council of state should initiate a dialogue process at the national level while the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) would ensure it reaches the grassroots. The statement said, “A government strategy to address the coronavirus pandemic without sustainable strategies to also confront rising insecurity and violence poses a significant threat to the democratic development of our country, and could potentially undermine the government’s efforts to address the spread of the coronavirus in Nigeria now, and in the future. READ ALSO: Insecurity: Stop The Rhetorics And Take Action – Sultan Tells Buhari “There is a growing public consensus that the current leadership of our security agencies have failed woefully, and that our Commander-in-Chief has so far refused to act. This cannot continue. Mr President, you must show more concern and do what is necessary to improve the effectiveness of our security agencies, even if it means replacing the current leadership of our security agencies.” The statement said, “The government has been incapable of assuring Nigerians that it cares about our predicament. Numerous conspiracy theories about the causes of the violence continue to circulate, without any reassuring counter-narratives coming from the government. “Our country is rapidly approaching a tipping point. Enough is enough. The time for action is now.”