Nigeria has succeeded in getting a United Kingdom court to temporarily suspend the $10bn an arbitration court awarded against it an in favour an Irish firm, Process and Industrial Development (P&ID) over the co tract breach in a Gas Supply and Processing Agreement (GSPA). The Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, disclosed this in a statement on Friday. Malami in the statement signed by his media aide, Dr. Umar Gwandu, said the English court delivered an unprecedented judgment, allowing the Federal Republic of Nigeria (FRN) permission to proceed with its challenge to the $10bn arbitral award made against it over three years ago. He said, “The court has allowed the FRN to bring this challenge well outside the normal time limits, due to the exceptional circumstances where FRN has uncovered evidence of a massive fraud in procuring the award. “The court heard evidence from the FRN and the offshore shell company P&ID in relation to the gas supply and processing agreement (GSPA), which the parties entered into 10 years ago and which was never performed.” Gwandu said, “The Muhammadu Buhari administration, having inherited this dispute from the previous administration, only recently uncovered evidence that the GSPA was a sham commercial deal designed to fail from the start, and that its subsequent arbitral award was based on fraud and corruption. “The FRN relied on a number of ongoing investigations across multiple jurisdictions, including the US, to build its case. During the hearing, new evidence was presented to further support Nigeria’s challenge.” According to him, the government will now proceed to a full trial of the issues, where the government’s substantive application to finally set aside the award will be heard, thereby recording a major success considering the fact that the Federal Government exceptional circumstances application to have its challenge taken well outside the normal time limits is upheld on account of uncovered evidence of massive fraud in procuring the award. He said, “The Federal Republic of Nigeria is pleased with the outcome from the High Court hearing today. This is a major victory in our ongoing fight against the vulture-fund-backed P&ID, to overturn the injustice of the multi-billion dollar arbitral award. “In light of the new and substantive evidence presented regarding P&ID’s fraudulent and corrupt activities, the court has granted our application for an extension of time to hear our challenge out of normal time limits.” Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Thursday commended the Federal Government’s decision to increase the pump price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), better known as petrol, to N162. He claimed that the government’s action would attract huge investments to the petroleum industry. The governor insisted that petroleum products must attract appropriate pricing. READ ALSO: Petrol Now Sells At N162 The governor voiced his support at a time Nigerians roundly condemned the new petrol litre price. Abiodun, who spoke with State House Correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, also gave his nod to the hike in electricity tariff with effect from September 1. “First, you want to enjoy lower prices when the prices of crude are low and then not want to pay for a slight increase when there is an increase in price of crude. “The price of crude is directly proportional to the price of refined products. So, I believe that is what is happening at the moment”, the governor stated. Abiodun made a similar submission on power tariff hike, hinging his position on appropriate pricing. READ ALSO: New Electricity Tariffs Takes Effect Today He added, “In terms of the tariff increase in the electricity industry, again, we also have to decide what we want to do. “We all complain that we are not generating enough electricity and we all complain about the fact that we don’t have the right infrastructure to transmit electricity, we complain about the fact that the distribution companies do not seem to be efficient. The problem is because, perhaps, the pricing is not right. READ ALSO: Electricity Tariff Hike: Lawan, Gbajabiamila Meet Buhari, Osinbajo, Say Timing Is Wrong “If you want people to invest in production of gas, in gas floatation, which our turbines and our power plants rely on, we must ensure that the entire value chain is profitable. Because if one part of it is not profitable, that means there will be a shortfall in one of the value chains, if we don’t have enough investment. “So, if you don’t have enough investment in gas gathering, if we don’t have enough investment in gas transportation, we will not have enough gas supply to sustain the quantum of generation we require as a government or as a nation. And when we don’t have that, we don’t have enough that will be transmitted to our homes and the transmission grid, and then, we continue to complain. So, really the truth is that it’s a cache 22 situation.”