Bill Gates Snr., a lawyer and the father of Microsoft’s Co-founder, who stepped in when appeals for charity began to overwhelm his billionaire son and started what became the world’s largest philanthropy, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, died on Monday at his beach home on Hood Canal, in the Seattle area. A New York Times report said he was 94. The cause of his death was Alzheimer’s disease, his family said in an announcement on Tuesday. The younger Gates who announced his father’s death on an Instagram post said his late father was the real Bill Gates. He wrote, “Dad lived a long and meaningful life. I never stopped learning from his wisdom, kindness, and humility. “Melinda and I owe him a special debt because his commitment to serving the community and the world helped inspire our own philanthropy. “Although he would be the last person to say it, my father’s compassion and generosity will live on in the foundation he helped build. “As I would always say, my dad was the real Bill Gates. He was and will continue to be all the things I strive to be.” In 1994, Mr. Gates was 69 and planning to retire from his prestigious law practice in a few years when, one autumn evening, he and his son, Bill, and his daughter-in-law, Melinda, went to a movie. Standing in the ticket line, Bill told his father that he was being inundated with appeals for charity but that he was far too busy running Microsoft to answer them. His father suggested that he, Bill Snr., could sift through the paperwork and, with his son’s approval, send out some checks. Bill Jnr. agreed. What Mr. Gates Sr. found later were dozens of cardboard boxes filled with requests for money, many with heartbreaking stories of need. A week later, Bill Jr. set aside $100m to open what was initially called the William H. Gates Foundation. His father, sitting at his kitchen table, wrote the first check: $80,000 for a local cancer programme. Over the next 13 years, while Bill Gates focused primarily on Microsoft, his father managed the foundation day to day, conferring with its executives and philanthropic experts, sending his son lists of proposed grants, writing checks and shaping the charity’s major goals: improving health and education and alleviating poverty in America and the third world. Former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, has asked the United States of America to go beyond the visa restrictions it placed on unnamed individuals, presumed to be politicians for undermining elections, and extent the travel ban to electoral officers and  security personnel who aid in rigging elections. Speaking on Tuesday at a Centre for Advancement of Civil Liberties event to mark this year’s International Day of Democracy, Saraki also asked the European Union and the United Kingdom to place similar visa restrictions on those he described as enemies of democracy like the US has done. He said, “The US decision to place visa restrictions on certain Nigerian politicians for their ignoble roles in the 2019 elections is commendable. “I call on the UK and the European Union to follow suit. This is necessary to send the right and strong signal that those who undermine democracy in Nigeria are enemies of the rest of the democratic world.” READ ALSO: US Visa Ban And The Future Of Nigerian Elections He said, “The sanctions should go beyond politicians and include electoral officers, security officials and judicial officers who undermine our democracy by their actions during and after elections.” Saraki said, “May be there should be a law that prevents the deployment of the military for election assignments. We should ensure strict compliance with the law on this and even go further to enshrine this in our constitution. “It is also important we come in strong in the enforcement of the provisions of the law which provides for punishment of politicians, law enforcement agents, ordinary citizens and electoral officers who are caught subverting the electoral process.” The US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, had on Monday announced visa restrictions on individuals for their actions during elections in both Kogi and Bayelsa states. A State Department said, “In July 2019, we announced the imposition of visa restrictions on Nigerians who undermined the February and March 2019 elections. Today, the Secretary of State is imposing additional visa restrictions on individuals for their actions surrounding the November 2019 Kogi and Bayelsa State elections and in the run up to the September and October 2020 Edo and Ondo State elections.” READ ALSO: US Visa Restrictions: FG’s Panel Recommends National Criminal Information Management, DNA Lab The statement said, “These individuals have so far operated with impunity at the expense of the Nigerian people and have undermined democratic principles. “The Department of State emphasises that the actions announced today are specific to certain individuals and not directed at the Nigerian people.” It said, “This decision reflects the Department of State’s commitment to working with the Nigerian government to realise its expressed commitment to end corruption and strengthen democracy, accountability, and respect for human rights.”