The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Thursday reported 124 new cases of COVID-19 in the country, the lowest since April 27, 2020 It also revised the death tally adding 20 deaths that had occurred in Kaduna over the last one month. One more death was reported in its daily update of COVID-19 cases across the country. 54,587 cases of the coronavirus disease have now been confirmed in Nigeria, 42,627 patients have been discharged and a total of 1,048 death recorded. Only 13 states reported new cases of COVID-19 with Lagos State recording the highest number of 42 infections. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 25 new cases, Katsina State had 14, Kaduna State had 11, Kwara State had eight, Ondo State reported seven and Delta State reported four cases. Anambra and Oyo states reported three cases each, Edo, Ogun and Osun states had two each, while Cross River State had just one case. The federal government has further relaxed the late night curfew that was imposed as containment measures for the outbreak of coronavirus. The government imposed a total lockdown on movements in Lagos and Abuja to curb the spread of the coronavirus. It was not lifted until May 4, 2020 after which a nationwide curfew from 8pm to 6am was imposed. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records 216 New Cases Of COVID-19 The curfew was on June 2, 2020 relaxed to the hours between 10pm and 4am daily. The national coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Sani Aliyu, said at a media briefing on Thursday that the curfew, which replaced the total lockdown in several states, will be shortened by two hours. He said, “We are modifying the curfew to commence from 12 midnight to 4am nationwide, effective from 12:00 hours tonight. This does not apply to people on essential services and international travellers that might be returning from abroad.” Aliyu said, “In terms of other aspects of general movement, no formal restriction will be applied within the country but the risk remains there. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records Lowest COVID-19 Cases Since April 14 “For citizens in particular vulnerability groups, the elderly, those with underlying medical illnesses are strongly advised to continue keeping away from mass gatherings and general public and staying at home.” He added, “We will be engaging closely with state governments with regards to the issue of compliance, particularly with face masks because we remain quite concerned about the low level of compliance with this simple intervention measure that we know is quite effective.”