Former Head of State General Abdulsalami Abubakar in a congratulatory statement to all participants in the Edo governorship election has asked Governor Godwin Obaseki to repay the people of the state with good governance and justice. The statement signed by the former Nigerian leader on behalf of members of the National Peace Committee congratulated “the good people of Edo State on the peaceful conduct of their elections in which a winner has emerged.” Nigerians, he said, “appreciate the exemplary sacrifice, decorum and courage that you showed allaying the earlier fears that preceded the elections. I appeal to Nigerians across the board to emulate your conduct.” He said, “I want to congratulate the Chairman of INEC, Professor Mahmood and his team, the Inspector General of Police, other Security Agencies, and Civil society groups for doing such an excellent job and making great sacrifices. It is our prayer that every election will bring us closer to peace. “I want to thank the Oba, His Royal Highness, Omonoba who teamed up with our Committee to deploy his moral authority in the appeal for peace.” Abdulsalami added, “Finally, our congratulations to the contestants, to Godwin Obaseki, the winner, Pastor Ize-Iyamu and others who sought the office of Governor. “Your Excellency, Governor, it is our prayer that you will repay the good people of Edo State with all the ingredients of good governance, justice equity. Once, again, accept our congratulations and may God guide you.” The Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, has said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was compromised by the People’s Democratic Party in the just concluded governorship election in Edo State. Uzodinma who was Deputy Chairman of the APC Edo State Governorship Campaign Council, rejected the results of the governorship election, which was won by Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the PDP. READ ALSO: INEC Chairman Warns Staff Against Taking Sides In Edo Election The Chief Press Secretary to Uzodinma, Oguwike Nwachuku said in a statement on Sunday that the governor’s position was that “the entire process in Edo State was marred by irregularities from officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) who sabotaged the system, making it difficult for the APC votes to count.” He described the conduct of INEC officials in the Edo Governorship Election as ‘shameful’. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Obaseki Disappointed With INEC, Security Agents According to the Imo governor, “the APC is already gathering evidence to proceed to the Election Petition Tribunal any moment from now, confident that the party will get judgment in due time.” He urged all APC faithful and party supporters to remain calm and law abiding, noting that what happened in Edo State is a sabotage to our hard-worn Democracy in Nigeria.