The Lagos State Police Command has deployed 1,000 officers to complement other security personnel drafted for the Edo governorship election scheduled for Sept. 19. This is contained in a statement issued in Lagos on Sunday by the Command’s Police Public Relations Officer, SP Olumuyiwa Adejobi. Adejobi said that the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, admonished officers from the Command to be of good conduct and exhibit professionalism in discharging their duties during the election. READ ALSO: How To Prevent Electoral Violence In Edo, Other States – Retired DIG Habila Joshak “He further reiterated the commitment of the IGP to sustain the core values of democracy in Nigeria via fair, free and credible elections,” the police spokesman said. Odumosu said that adequate incentives and welfare packages as approved by the IGP had been provided to encourage and boost the morale of the officers detailed for the special duty. The CP enjoined the officers to protect themselves and avoid any acts capable of denting the image of the Force and truncating the peaceful conduct of the election in Edo State, the statement said. (NAN) Daddy Freeze, leader of the Free Nation In Christ has released a new video apologising to Bishop David Oyedepo, the bishop of Winners Chapel for insulting him. The apology by Daddy Freeze comes after a week of fireworks that had other Church leaders, including Pastor David Ibiyeomie of the Salvation Ministries openly attacking Freeze for allegedly insulting Oyedepo. In the new video, Daddy Freeze said, “My attention has been drawn to a video I released two years, seven months ago, while addressing some pertinent issues that arose back them. I apologise for the delivery of my message and for any insult to Bishop David Oyedepo in that video. READ ALSO: Daddy Freeze Questions Why Police Haven’t Acted After Pastor Ibiyeomie’s Threats “As I did not in any way intend to dishonour, disrespect or disregard the person of the bishop. The perceived intention to the contrary is regrated. My methods of addressing doctrinal issues has long since evolved to a more scriptural and less confrontational approach. He said, “I was and still am, very passionate in my quest to address what I believe to be unaddressed doctrinal issues, however, from a more amiable perspective. “I am of the firm belief that for a faith to thrive, we as Christian believers have to, as a collective, be open to absorbing new theological and doctrinal frames of reference as against the faith model subsumed in unchallengeable beliefs. This, I believe can be achieved in love, for the furtherance of our faith.”