French health authorities recorded the highest daily increase in coronavirus infections since the beginning of the pandemic, as the government considers further measures to stop the virus’ spread. On Thursday night, 9,843 new cases were announced from the previous 24 hours, the AFP news agency reported, citing the health ministry. The government is set to discuss further measures to contain the pandemic on Friday and the scientific advisory board has called on the government to act, according to the report. Many doctors fear that the intensive care units could be overburdened in autumn – as they were in March. Currently, large gatherings are already prohibited. In some cities, masks are mandatory in public places and even on the streets. The previous daily record was around 7,500 virus cases reported in late March. However, as in many countries, the number of tests has increased immensely. As in other European countries, young adults in France are increasingly contracting the virus, according to the authorities. Risk areas are predominantly the Ile de France region around the capital Paris and the Cote d’Azur region. (NAN) The police in Katsina State on Thursday confirmed the arrest of a notorious member of bandits and kidnap for ransom syndicate, Abubakar Ibrahim, 19, at Rugu forest. The police spokesman, Mr. Gambo Isah, who disclosed this in a statement in Katsina, said that the syndicate, had been terrorising people in Batsari, Safana, Damnusa and Kurfi Local Government Areas in the state. Isah said that the police equally rescued three kidnapped victims. READ ALSO: Katsina Governor Admits Failure To Provide Security, Says Nothing About Resigning According to Isah, on September 7, 2020, the suspect, led other members of his syndicate, on motorcycles, all armed with AK 47 rifles, and attacked Dagarawa and Kudewa villages, in Safana and Kurfi Local Government Areas of the state. He said the bandits had kidnapped one Ashiru Ibrahim, 32, Duduwa Audu, 50, and Asiya Saleh, 45, all of Kudewa village, Kurfi Local Government Area, and took them into Rugu forest. READ ALSO: ‘Your Protests Could Distract Military Operations,’ President Buhari Begs Katsina Protesters “That  nemesis caught up with the suspect when he fell into a bobby trap, and was apprehended by SARS operatives, after he collected the sum of N241,000 ransom from the relatives of the victims,” he said. He revealed that in the course of investigation, the suspect had confessed that he committed the offence along with others, now at large. Isah said that the N241,000 ransom was recovered in his possession. READ ALSO: Some Katsina Local Chiefs Colluding With Bandits – Garba Shehu “Today, September 10, 2020, at about 9:30a.m., the command succeeded in arresting one of the suspects and rescued the victims. “The victims had reunited with their families after treatment at Kurfi General Hospital,” he said. (NAN)