As part of celebrations marking the 2020 Yoruba Day, the Yoruba World Congress has made plans to launch a manifesto for a Yoruba nation. YWC Leaders Council at the weekend released a calendar for the 2020 Yoruba Day Celebrations in a statement signed by Professor Anthony Kila, its secretary general. According to the statement, the one-week long global events approved by the YWC Leaders‘ Council will start on Wednesday, 23rd of September 2020, to mark the end of the Kiriji War and to declare the YWC Manifesto for a Yoruba Nation. The 2020 Yoruba Day Celebrations will be hosted by YWC Chapters in Nigeria, South Africa, USA, England, Brazil and Cuba. The series of global events will be coordinated by a 16-man international committee made up of prominent Yoruba leaders resident in five continents across the world. Professor Kila is chairman of the YWC Global Planning Committee. Manifesto for Yoruba Nation is to be hosted in Lagos, while the Yoruba Global Library Project will be hosted in the US. Yoruba in the world, will be hosted in Brazil and Cuba, Tomorrow People and Yoruba Culture, will be hosted in Ibadan. Yoruba Community Development and Empowerment, is to be hosted in South Africa, while Safety and Security in Yorubaland, is be hosted by “Amotekun ni gbobo wa”. The events will see the participation of prominent Yoruba Traditional Rulers and Yoruba Leaders that have made their marks in the academia, arts and entertainment, business and finance, security, public and private service across the world. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday reported 160 new cases of COVID-19 infections in the country. The NCDC also reported two more deaths due to the Coronavirus disease,  which 90 more patients were discharged from treatment centres. Nigeria now has a total of 56,177 confirmed cases of COVID-19, while 44,088 patients have been discharged and 1,078 deaths reported. Topping the list of new cases, were the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Plateau State with 39 infections each. Lagos State had 30 new cases. In Kaduna State, there were 23 new cases, seven in Katsina State, six each in Rivers and Oyo states, three each in Yobe and Benue states, and one each in Bayelsa, Abia, Edo and Ekiti states.