The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Kwara Sector Command, has inaugurated a special operation to curb speed limit violations by motorists in the state. The Sector Commander, Mr. Jonathan Owoade, said this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ilorin on Wednesday. He said the operation became necessary following the attitude of some motorists, especially truck drivers. READ ALSO: FRSC Launches ‘Ember Months’ Safe Driving Campaign Owolabi said that the programme was part of the FRSC’s effort to ensure safety on the roads during the ‘Ember’ Months. “The operation is part of activities heralding our Ember Months safety campaigns, and it is being carried out in collaboration with the Nigerian Air Force. “The essence is to tackle the unsafe attitudes of some motorists in the state, especially those whose vehicles have no speed limit devices,” he said. The sector commander also said that part of the operation was to monitor articulated vehicles that carry containers without twist locks. He urged drivers in the state to obey traffic rules in the interest of their lives and that of other road users. (NAN) Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said condemned the notion that victims or potential victims of sexual harassment are architects of their fate, especially by their attitude, dressing or willingness to be in a compromising place with their violators. Osinbajo was quoted in a statement in Abuja by his aide, Laolu Akande, to have spoken on Wednesday at a webinar on Anti-Sexual Harassment. The theme of the webinar is, “Finding Safe Spaces for Female Students in Nigerian Universities,” organised by the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife. The event was based on the book authored by notable journalist and former presidential spokesman, Mr. Olusegun Adeniyi, titled Naked Abuse: Sex for Grades in African Universities. The vice president said the idea of blaming the victim should be resisted in every situation. READ ALSO: Sex for Grades Demand Our Fury “The victim must always be seen as the victim; there cannot be an excuse, especially given the power configuration between students and lecturers, that the victim could have somehow invited the abuse upon themselves. “I think it is an important consideration to be made and we must not allow that notion to persist. He said that there was also the comparison sometimes made between demanding bribes for service and sex for grades. According to the vice president, people will argue sometimes that a bribe is a bribe and there is no reason why the punishment for sex as the currency of the bribe should be stricter than an ordinary bribe. READ ALSO: Sex For Marks: MAUTECH Yola Sacks Two Lecturers Osinbajo said developing and adhering to a set of ethical codes of conduct for conversations and interactions involving lecturers and students in universities would greatly address the problem. “To ensure that both faculty and students are sufficiently clear about the issues and rules, there is a need for a code of conduct or ethical guidelines based on best practices in appropriate student/lecturer interactions. “It is important that these are clearly defined in ethical guidelines that are contained in some documents that people can refer to and see. “It is important both for the lecturer and the student that there is some reference to some code of conduct,” he said. Osinbajo also recommended the adoption of a mandatory well thought-out whistleblower process, emphasising confidentiality, professional legal and medical help for victims or potential victims. Dignitaries, who also spoke at the webinar besides Adeniyi, the Guest Speaker, included the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and Kwara State Governor, Alhaji Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. The First Lady of Ekiti State, Mrs Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi, and the Vice Chancellor of OAU, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbode were also present at the event. (NAN)