The People’s Democratic Party (PDP), National Working Committee (NWC), has urged the Federal Government to allow the private sector to drive the country’s economy. The PDP National Chairman, Mr. Uche Secondus, gave the advice while receiving a delegation of the party’s women to the party’s campaign office, Legacy House, to protest against the state of the economy. According to Secondus, in advanced countries it is the private sector that drives the economy, adding that the government cannot do it alone. READ ALSO: PDP Calls For Buhari’s Resignation “What we want to advise the government is to allow the private sector to drive the economy. That is what is happening in other countries. “In all civilized countries in the world it is the private sector that drives the economy, government cannot do it,” he stated. Secondus noted that what was required of the government was to engage competent Nigerians to do the work. He assured the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), and the civil societies that the PDP would continue to stand with the citizens. READ ALSO: Focus On Rebuilding Party, Atiku Tells PDP “On behalf of the leadership of our party we have taken measures to let the world know that we cannot go on like this,” he said. Secondus said that the NWC was not just speaking for the PDP, but for the ordinary Nigerians on the streets. (NAN) The routine culling of newly hatched male chicks is to be banned in Germany from January 2022, according to draft legislation published in Berlin on Wednesday. From that time forward, producers wishing to cull male chicks must determine the sex by technical means before the chick hatches. The legislation presented by Agriculture Minister Julia Kloeckner also provides for a second stage. From January 2024 onwards, methods must be used that take effect before the seventh day of incubation. The reasoning behind the change is that chick embryos experience pain from the seventh day. Around 45 million day-old male chicks are culled every year, as the males do not lay eggs and do not grow as quickly. The incubation period is 21 days, with the latest viable procedure determining sex in the egg over a period of between nine and 14 days, according to information from the ministry. Research aimed at earlier determination is ongoing. Kloeckner said that culling the day-old chicks was ethically unacceptable. The new law made Germany a pioneer in the area, she said, describing it as a “milestone in animal welfare.” (NAN)