The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has committed to the execution of the counterpart Funding Agreements with the Licensed InfraCo to facilitate increase in fibre deployment in the country and ensure, at least one Point of Access (PoA) in each of the 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Nigeria to enhance digital transformation. The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta made the commitment recently while explaining to media executives, the Commission’s plan for the next five years of his leadership. Danbatta said, “Our plan for the increased growth of telecom in Nigeria is clear. We will leave no stones unturned, we will not on oars to ensure we achieve our goals. “We have our job cut out for us and we will start with broadband because that is the key to touching the lives of every Nigerian.  We hope to take broadband penetration to 70 per cent to at least 90 percent of the population by 2025 in line with new target in the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NBBP), 2020-2025.” Danbatta said, “We want to continue to protect consumers and ensure they have value for their money. We want to continue to support and fast-track the digital economy drive of the Federal Government of Nigeria and this has led to the creation of a Digital Economy Department in the Commission. “The Commission is placing emphasis on growing the digital economy in collaboration with sister agencies under the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy (FMoCDE).” Danbatta said he hoped to consolidate on spectrum trading to ensure maximum and efficient usage of available frequencies; continuous SIM registration audit to provide security and curtail incidences of banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery; completion and commissioning of Emergency Communications Centres (ECCs) in the remaining states to enhance security and provide relief to citizens in distress. Of Nigeria’s 36 states, and also the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), only eight reported new cases of COVID-19 as announced by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday. The eight reported 90 new cases of the coronavirus Disease, taking the  country’s total number of confirmed cases to 56,478. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records 79 COVID-19 Cases, Lowest Since April 27 44,430 patients have so far been discharged, while the total death toll has risen to 1,088. Lagos State recorded the highest number of new cases with 33, followed by Plateau State, which had 27 new infections. READ ALSO: 438 Active COVID-19 Cases In Lagos Not Receiving Treatment In Kaduna State, there were 17 new cases, six in Ogun State, four in the FCT and one each in Anambra, Ekiti and Nasarawa states.