Former Lagos governor, Bola Tinubu, has sent out a personal appeal to the people of Edo State to vote Governor Godwin Obaseki out of office in the election coming up on Saturday, September 19, 2020 because the governor has no respect for the wishes of voters or the rule of law. Speaking in a video posted on social media, Tinubu described Obaseki as a dictator and lacking appreciation for the struggle that brought about the present democratic dispensation. He said in the video, “I Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu want to appeal, as a committed democrat and a leader of all democrats regardless of political party, to our conscience and our commitment to democracy today on the forth coming elections in Edo State. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Obaseki’s Conduct Impeachable – Tinubu “I want to appeal to you to reject Godwin Obaseki in this coming election. I have suffered with many others to bring about this democratic regime that today we are enjoying in the country.” Tinubu noted that Godwin Obaseki then didn’t participate in any aspect of the struggle to enshrine democracy in the country. “Therefore, he could not understand the value and the pain, that was associated with this democratic struggle.” The former governor of Lagos said Obaseki was elected a governor by the people of Edo State because he presented himself to them then as a democrat and he was sworn in after winning the election. He said, “No one prevented him from being sworn-in. Thereafter, members of state assembly who got elected along with him, specifically 24 of them. Out of this 24, he prevented 14 of them from being sworn-in. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Nigerians Should Hold APC Responsible For Any Election Violence – Wike “He demonstrated the act of dictatorship, lack of respect for rule of law, lack of respect for you the people who voted for those legislators prevented from being sworn-in. Today, he now comes around as a democrat wanting you to vote for him.” Tinubu said, “Please, I appeal to you, reject him. Several institutions and leaders in our country appealed to him to respect constitutional democracy. But he rejected all entreats. He rejected appeals from the National Assembly.” The African Leaders for Nutrition (ALN) have unveiled a position paper calling on African Heads of State and Governments to ensure that financing for nutrition is included in their country’s COVID-19 response and recovery plans. The call was made in a statement from African Development Bank (AfDB) on Tuesday in Abuja. The position paper titled; “Embedding Nutrition within the COVID-19 Response and Recovery”, was sent to African member states by King Letsie III of the Kingdom of Lesotho, an ALN “Nutrition Champion”. The position paper recommended that countries maintained and increased the level of funding allocated to nutrition to safeguard previous efforts to address malnutrition. It also recommended that countries ensured there were no gaps within their multi-year nutrition programmes in immediate, medium-term and post-pandemic recovery COVID-19 responses. Former Ghanaian President, John Kufuor, who is also an ALN founding member and Nutrition Champion said: “As COVID-19 cases rise in Africa, the impact on nutrition and food systems cannot be denied. “The threat of this new virus requires us to adopt new ways of looking and overcoming malnutrition.” The paper also emphasised the role of high-level political leadership, in particular Heads of State and Ministers of Finance, as nutrition champions. “The aim of the champions is to ensure that actions and economic stimulus packages developed to combat the pandemic are made available and affordable to all,’’ it said. The AfDB noted that the pandemic had created major global health and economic shocks with unprecedented impacts on people’s health, nutrition and livelihoods. The bank emphasised that to mitigate malnutrition in the continent, nutrition could not be left out of the COVID-19 response in Africa It also noted that the pandemic was a chance for African leaders to reshape and spearhead high-level sensitisation, advocacy and resource mobilisation efforts toward securing increased investments in nutrition. The position paper forms part of the AfDB’s COVID-19 Response Facility to deploy financial and technical measures. The facility aims to cushion African economies and livelihoods against the health, social and economic impacts of the pandemic. Also, the ALN Secretariat is hosted by the bank to foster opportunities for high-level engagement to drive policy changes in Africa. (NAN)