A federal high court i  Abuja has found Senator Elisha Abo, representing Adamawa North guilty of assaulting Osimibibra Warmate during an encounter in sex toy  shop back in 2019. In the civil case filed by Warmate’s legal representatives, Samira Bature, the judge in the case ordered the senator to pay N50 million in damages to Osimibibra Warmate. Abbo had been charged for the assault in 2019 in a criminal case filed by the police at a magistrate court in Zuba,. The magistrate who held the case then, Abdullahi Ilelah, however dismissed the case for lack of diligent prosecution by the police. READ ALSO: ‘Senator Elisha Abbo Can’t Be Our Patron,’ Actors Guild of Nigeria Members Insist Warmate then filed a civil law suit before an Abuja high court. Her lawyers, Lugard Tare-Otu and Nelson posted a statement of the verdict on twitter saying, ”Remember that video of a Nigerian senator slapping/assaulting a young lady at a shop? “Well justice was served today with the court slamming the sum of N50M against the Senator. I am delighted to have represented that young lady in this suit. We say no more to oppression.” The police, on Monday, arraigned a 55-year-old man, Tokede Abiola, before an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates’ Court over alleged N1.6m fraud. The defendant, of no fixed address, is standing trial on a one-count charge of fraud, to which he pleaded not guilty. The Prosecutor, Inspector Oriyomi Akinwale, told the court that the defendant and others at large, committed the offence sometimes in July 2019, at about 4:00 pm. at Inland Club Hotel, Okesa in Ado-Ekiti. He said that the defendant obtained the sun of N1.6 million from the complainant, Mr. Oyinloye Abidemi, on the pretext of processing USA visa for him. Akinwale said that the offence contravened Section 419 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012.
He urged the court to adjourn the case to enable him study the file and assemble his witnesses. Counsel to the defendant, Mr. Timi Omotosho, urged the court to grant his client bail, with a promise that he would not jump bail. In her ruling, the Chief Magistrate, Mrs. Olanike Adegoke, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200,000, with two sureties in like sum. Adegoke said that one of the sureties must not be below Grade Level 12 in the civil service. She adjourned the case till October 30, for hearing. (NAN)