Dr. Wale Babalakin has tendered a resignation letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, stepping down as the Pro-Chancellor of the University of Lagos. The letter of resignation was addressed to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, and dated September 15, 2020. Babalakin in the letter thanked Buhari for giving him the opportunity to serve as the Pro-Chancellor of UNILAG from May 2017 till date. READ ALSO: Buhari Suspends UNILAG Pro-Chancellor, Wale Babalakin “I am also grateful that I was considered fit to be the Chairman of the Federal Government Negotiation Team on the Agreement reached with university unions in 2009, from 6th January 2017 till date. I equally want to thank you sir, for your role in recommending me to the President. Recent events have made my position in these two offices untenable.” “It is noteworthy that all the Federal Government Representatives who are the independent members on the Governing Council voted for the removal of the Vice-Chancellor,” he stated. Babalakin added, “After calm had been restored in the University, the Visitor acting within his powers, set up a Presidential Visitation Panel to review the actions taken by Governing Council.” “The Vice-Chancellor (who had been removed from office) and myself were told to recuse ourselves for the duration of the Visitation Panel.” WATCH ALSO: Babalakin Had Some Departments, Faculties On His Personal Payroll – UNILAG ASUU Chairman He said, “I find it difficult to understand how a non-executive Chairman of a Governing Council could be requested to recuse himself during the visitation. “The Vice-Chancellor could only recuse himself if he were still in office. Implicit in this position is that the Vice-Chancellor was acknowledged as still being in office despite his removal.” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on Thursday began the distribution of sensitive election materials to the 18 Local Government Areas of Edo, ahead of the Saturday’s governorship election. The materials were distributed amidst tight security. READ ALSO: Tinubu Begs Edo People To Reject Obaseki On Saturday The exercise which took place at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Benin branch, was witnessed by political parties’ agents, accredited observers and journalists. Mr. Timidi Wariowei, INEC’s Head of Voter Education and Publicity in Edo, told journalists that the distribution of the materials had began with the farthest LGAs. READ ALSO: Edo Grudge Match Reaches Final Wariowei said, “So far we have loaded about 11 LGAs. We started from Akoko-Edo, Etsako Central, Owan East and Owan West among others. “Some have gone and others are completely loaded and are sorting out their security escort and very soon materials will move to all the local governments. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Nigerians Should Hold APC Responsible For Any Election Violence – Wike “From the local governments, the materials will move to Registration Areas Centres (RACs) and from the RACs they will move to the polling units and voting points on Saturday morning. He said that INEC was fully ready for the election, adding, “this is the high point of our preparation, that is moving the materials from the CBN to LGAs’’. (NAN)