The newly re-elected Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has reached out to his political opponents in the state. Obaseki extended the olive branch on Tuesday after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) issued him a certificate of return as the winner of Saturday’s Edo State Governorship election. The certificate was presented to him by INEC National Commissioner, May Agbamuche-Mbu, who said the governor had met all the constitutional requirements to emerge winner of the election. Obaseki, shortly after receiving the certificate said, “I want to use this occasion to call on the former chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Aliu Oshiomhole, that, the fight is over.” He asked the former APC chairman to “come and join in building the house, where he was part of laying the foundation. “We have no malice. The only thing we disagree on is on the approach in moving Edo forward.” Obaseki said, “I want to put it on record that the election of September 19, 2020 has been adjudged as one of the best conducted election in terms of it being free and fair. “Our citizens have decided that for now, they trust us more with the affair of leadership. It does not mean that they did not have a role to play. It does not mean that they are not part of a family. He added, “So I am using this opportunity to extend a hand of fellowship to my brother, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and his other colleagues in the APC to join us and work with us so that we can move Edo State forward.” Two more Nigerians were on Monday reported to have died from COVID-19, taking the death toll in the country to 1,100. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reporting the latest figure also confirmed 195 new cases of COVID-19. The total number of confirmed cases now stands at 57,437, while 48,674 patients have been discharged. A total of 11 states reported new cases, with Enugu witnessing the highest number. READ ALSO: Nigeria Records 189 New Cases Of COVID-19 It had 51 new infections. Gombe State had 40 new cases, Lagos State had 39, Plateau State had 23, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 15 cases, while Rivers State had 12 new cases. In Kaduna State there eight new infections, three in Ondo State, two in Bauchi State and one each in Edo and Ogun states.