No fewer than 3,700 applicants were screened for police constable jobs in Enugu State in the just-concluded physical and credential screening of applicants, says a police official. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Daniel Ndukwe, said in a statement on Wednesday that the exercise, which lasted for 16 days, covered applicants from 17 Local Government Areas of the state. “A breakdown of the 3,700 applicants screened per local government area shows that Aninri (127), Awgu (239), Enugu East (64), Enugu North (60), Enugu South (108), Ezeagu (312), Igbo-Eze North (340), Igbo-Eze South (340) and Igbo-Etiti (258) applicants. “While Isi-Uzo (186), Nkanu East (111), Nkanu West (179), Nsukka, Oji-River (317), Udenu (161), Udi (253) and Uzo-Uwani (337) applicants,’’ he said. Meanwhile, Head of the Screening Team, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mr. Stanley Ude, commended members of the team for their show of resilience and commitment throughout the period of the exercise. Ude also thanked the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmad Abdurrahman, for his unwavering support and assistance that made the exercise smooth and hitch-free. “Accordingly, applicants have been enjoined to remain focused and have their fingers crossed, while they await official communication on the next stage of the recruitment. “They have been cautioned to be wary of recruitment racketeers hell-bent on defrauding them under the guise of facilitating their enlistment into the Force, as the exercise remains absolutely free of charge and without any pecuniary obligation,” he said. (NAN) A Wuse Zone Six Chief Magistrates’ Court, Abuja, on Wednesday ordered a 35-year-old driver, Ahmed Danladi, to sweep the court premises for two days for stealing. The police charged Danladi, of No 44 Oran Street, Wuse Zone One, Abuja with one count of theft. The Chief Magistrate, Omolola Akindele, ordered that the convict reports to the court for two days to sweep the premises after he pleaded guilty to the offence. He was not given the option  of fine. Earlier the Prosecution Counsel, ASP Peter Ejike, told the court that the complainant, Samuel Joseph of same address, reported the matter at Wuse Zone Three Police Divisional Headquarters on  September 1. Ejike further said that the convict working as a driver to Joseph’s boss on the same date stole a cleaning machine, whose value was yet unknown and attempted to pass it to a scavenger over the fence. The prosecutor said during police investigation, the convict confessed to committing the offence. He said that the offence contravened the provisions of Section 289 of the Penal Code Law. (NAN)