The Court of Appeal, Abuja, on Tuesday, upheld the conviction and sentencing of a clergy, Basil Princewill, for raping a 14-year-old girl and attempting to abort the pregnancy. Justice Stephen Adah, while reading a unanimous judgment of a panel of three, held that the appellate court found nothing wrong with the judgment given on June 25, 2019 by Justice Hussein Baba-Yusuf of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Justice Baba-Yusuf had, in that judgment, convicted Princewill, Founder and General Overseer of the Mountain Mover Fire Ministry International, Nyanya, Abuja, on two couts of the four counts contained in the charge on which he was tried. Princewill, who was sentenced to seven years for rape and five years for attempting to procure abortion, however appealed the decision in a suit marked: CA/A03c/2020 at the Court of Appeal. He noted that Counsel to the police, Simon Lough, effectively discharged the burden of proof placed on it by the law. “The sole issue, identified for determination, is resolved against the the appellant. “Having gone through the record before the court and the argument of counsel to the parties, we found that the trial court did not do anything wrong in convicting the appellant and sentencing him to seven years. “This appeal hereby fails. The conviction and sentencing of the appellant is affirmed,” Justice Adah said. He also dismissed the cross-appeal filed by the prosecution, who had sought a longer term of imprisonment for Princewill. Justice Adah held that it was the discretion of the trial judge and added that under the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015, a first offender cannot be given the total term of imprisonment provided by the law. The case was filed by the police on June 4, 2012, with the prosecution closing its case on December 9, 2016, after calling five witnesses. (NAN) Former Lagos governor, Bola Tinubu, has sent out a personal appeal to the people of Edo State to vote Governor Godwin Obaseki out of office in the election coming up on Saturday, September 19, 2020 because the governor has no respect for the wishes of voters or the rule of law. Speaking in a video posted on social media, Tinubu described Obaseki as a dictator and lacking appreciation for the struggle that brought about the present democratic dispensation. He said in the video, “I Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu want to appeal, as a committed democrat and a leader of all democrats regardless of political party, to our conscience and our commitment to democracy today on the forth coming elections in Edo State. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Obaseki’s Conduct Impeachable – Tinubu “I want to appeal to you to reject Godwin Obaseki in this coming election. I have suffered with many others to bring about this democratic regime that today we are enjoying in the country.” Tinubu noted that Godwin Obaseki then didn’t participate in any aspect of the struggle to enshrine democracy in the country. “Therefore, he could not understand the value and the pain, that was associated with this democratic struggle.” The former governor of Lagos said Obaseki was elected a governor by the people of Edo State because he presented himself to them then as a democrat and he was sworn in after winning the election. He said, “No one prevented him from being sworn-in. Thereafter, members of state assembly who got elected along with him, specifically 24 of them. Out of this 24, he prevented 14 of them from being sworn-in. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Nigerians Should Hold APC Responsible For Any Election Violence – Wike “He demonstrated the act of dictatorship, lack of respect for rule of law, lack of respect for you the people who voted for those legislators prevented from being sworn-in. Today, he now comes around as a democrat wanting you to vote for him.” Tinubu said, “Please, I appeal to you, reject him. Several institutions and leaders in our country appealed to him to respect constitutional democracy. But he rejected all entreats. He rejected appeals from the National Assembly.”