The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has confirmed the killing of its two operatives on Monday at Mararaban Udege in Nasarawa State. The Corps Public Education Officer (CPEO), ACM Bisi Kazeem, who disclosed this in a statement in Abuja on Monday added that 10 others had been abducted. Kazeem noted that 26 personnel were reportedly attacked while traveling from Sokoto and Kebbi States Command of the Corps for a training programme at FRSC Academy, Udi, Enugu State. “They were attacked by bandits and kidnappers at Udege junction, along Mararaban-Udege between Adoka, Nasarawa state today Monday 14th September, 2020 at about 8am. “The Officers totalling 26 in number were travelling in two buses. “One of the Officers in the vehicle conveying the staff of the Corps reportedly died during the attack while another officer died in the hospital and six others were injured. “Eight escaped unhurt, 10 unaccounted for as they were allegedly kidnapped by the assailants, ” he said. The Corps Marshal, FRSC Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, had immediately reported the incident to relevant authorities for prompt rescue of the kidnapped staff while investigations to ensure that the assailants were brought to book was ongoing. Oyeyemi called on all staff of the Corps not to be deterred by this unfortunate incident. He assured that the Corps would work closely with relevant security agencies to ensure that the criminal elements were brought to book and justice was served while the missing personnel were found. The National Association of State Assembly Legislators (NASAL) has honoured the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Danbatta, with a National Service Excellence Award. The award was in recognition of Danbatta’s transformational leadership in deepening access to telecommunications services across state constituencies of Nigeria in the last five years. According to statement signed by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of public affair, the Director General of NASAL, Hon. Uchechukwu Chukwuma led a five-member delegation to the Commission to present the award in Abuja recently. Honourable Chukwuma said, “the award from NASAL not only underscores the remarkable leadership role by Danbatta in deepening the development and growth of the telecoms sector at the grassroots but also demonstrates the pivotal role of the EVC as a change agent, a catalyst for national development and a great Nigerian patriot.” He said in the last five years, NASAL, as the body of state lawmakers in the country, has consistently monitored the activities of the Danbatta-led NCC and observed notable improvements in telecoms services across state constituencies in Nigeria. Chukwuma said, “Danbatta’s efforts have manifested in enhanced access to the Internet by our people, which has given them the opportunity to participate and ventilate their views constructively. As you know, citizens’ participation in political activities is one of the attributes of an ideal democracy and Prof. Danbatta has helped to promote this ideal.” Statistics from the Commission  showed that when Danbatta came on board five years ago, 217 access gap clusters were identified in the country, with 40m Nigerians excluded from access to telecoms services. Five years after, however, the access gaps have reduced to 114 clusters with additional 15 million Nigerians now connected. While receiving the award on behalf of the EVC, Director, Public Affairs, NCC, Adinde, who appreciated NASAL for the recognition, said the award was both an encouragement and a challenge to the EVC and his team to do more. “It is heartwarming that NASAL has found our EVC and CEO deserving of this award. The award is an acknowledgement that his accomplishments have not gone unnoticed. We at the NCC, value this gesture, which writes the history of Professor Danbatta’s achievements in a very distinctive and enduring way,” Adinde said. Speaking further on Danbatta’s leadership, Adinde said, “From the recent industry statistics and other relevant macro indicators, the telecoms sector, under Danbatta, has recorded positive growth in terms of active voice subscriptions, internet subscriptions, teledensity, broadband penetration and contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).”