A former Nigerian Minister of Finance, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has been appointed as a member of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) External Advisory Group. Kristalina Georgieva, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), announced this in a statement published on IMF’s website on Friday. The IMF chief stated that the Managing Director’s External Advisory Group will meet a few times a year with the IMF’s Managing Director, Deputy Managing Directors, and a sub-set of IMF department Directors. During such meeting, the new external advisory group is expected to provide perspectives from around the globe on key developments and policy issues, including policy responses to the exceptional challenges the world now faces due to the novel coronavirus and its economic impact. Georgieva added, “To serve our membership well in this context, we need top-notch input and expertise from the widest range of sources, inside and outside the Fund. “Toward this end, I am proud that an exceptional and diverse group of eminent individuals with high-level policy, market, and private sector experience has agreed to serve on my External Advisory Group. Today we had a dynamic discussion to gain their insights, and to receive informal reactions to our ideas and approaches.” The members of the Managing Director’s External Advisory Group include: Ms. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, former Finance Minister of Nigeria, Mr. Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Senior Minister of Singapore and Chairman of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, Ms. Kristin Forbes, Professor, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mr. Kevin Rudd, former Prime Minister of Australia, Lord Mark Malloch Brown, former United Nations Deputy Secretary-General, Mr. Feike Sijbesima, Honorary Chair, DSM, Former CEO, Royal DSM, Mr. Raghuram Rajan, Professor, University of Chicago, Ms. Ana Botín, Group Executive Chairman, Santander, Ms. Carmen Reinhart, Professor, Harvard University, Mr. Mohamed A. El-Erian, Chief Economic Adviser, Allianz, Mr. Scott Minerd, Chief Investment Officer, Guggenheim Investments, Ms. Nyaradzayi Gumbonzvanda, Chair of ActionAid International.