At least 118 persons returning from Lagos and other states have been quarantined in Adamawa State, northeast Nigeria. Sources say that the affected returnees who are mostly factory workers from Lagos and Ogun states, would be isolated and observed for 14 days, in line with the guidelines issued by Governor Ahmadu Fintiri. Already, 59 of the returnees have been isolated at the Numan facility, while 40 of them have been quarantined at the Kpacham facility in Demsa local government area of the state. Reports say that Chairman of the state COVID-19 containment committee who doubles as Secretary to the State Government(SSG), Bashir Ahmad, ordered the isolation of the returnees on Friday. The SSG who led a team of experts and security operatives to monitor compliance with the interstate travel ban, expressed worry that state governments in the region were not collaborating in the lockdown. The police spokesman in the state also confirmed the development. He said, “Some were intercepted while coming from Gombe axis and were intercepted at Numan-Gombe border areas, as I am talking to they   were put into the designated isolation centre at Villanoba in Numan town.” Nguroje, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), said that a special police task force team led by deputy commissioner of police had been formed to ensure total compliance already. “Apart from the buses intercepted, another 17 tricycles were equally impounded in Numan for rules violations. “Consequently, the CP has directed Assistant Commissioners of Police and DPOs to ensure full implementation of the restriction order, especially as it relates to night travel without being unmindful of categories of exempted persons and the fundamental human rights of citizens,” he said. Though Adamawa state is yet to record an index case of COVID-19,  investigations have revealed that road transport workers, town service drivers, and Tricycles operators have continued to defy the government’s lockdown order and have continued on night journeys and carrying many passengers.