The Managing Director of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Ahmed Kuru, has written a condolence letter to President Muhammadu Buhari over the death of his Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, who died in Lagos on Friday April 17, 2020 from COVID-19 complications. Contents of the letter were released to the media by Jude Nwauzor, the head of the corporate communications department at AMCON. Kuru, in the letter he personally signed, described Kyari as dedicated and selfless. He said, “With a deep sense of sorrow, I wish to, on behalf of the Management and Staff of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), express my sincere sympathy to you, the entire federal Executive Council and the Federal Republic of Nigeria over the passing on of your Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, which sad incident occurred in Lagos on Friday April 17, 2020. “Painful as the demise of this outstanding Nigeria is, from complications arising from the deadly Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, we are however comforted by the excellent good life, dedication to developmental governance and selfless service of Mallam Abba Kyari, who was until death your loyal and trusted Chief of Staff.” Kuru said, “We are even saddened the most because Mallam Abba Kyari was on national assignment where he participated in several state functions to see how to improve the energy sector in the country among other official engagement, which unfortunately exposed him to the disease, which eventually led to his death.” He added, “Mr. President, as you mourn the death of this trusted ally, we at AMCON want you to draw your comfort from the fact that Mallam Abba Kyari, a thorough bred lawyer, banker, journalist and administrator gave his best as a competent, dedicated and loyal aide to you in particular and to Nigeria as a nation. A highly patriotic Nigerian who is not shy and afraid to pursue any matter so far is in National Interest. Indeed, the country will miss him. “Having led such a remarkable life as an outstanding topmost aide of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under your enviable leadership, which is worthy of emulation, our prayer is that Almighty Allah will accord Mallam Kyari eternal rest and grant Mr. President, the family and nation as a whole the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss of this illustrious Nigerian patriot.”