The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has released a statement warning telecoms consumers to be wary of a fraudulent message offering free internet that is being spread by a fraudulent website. NCC on Thursday identified the fake website; (https://covid-19-fg-grant.blogspot.com/?=1) which is asking Nigerian citizens to apply for a free Internet bundle ostensibly being given by the Nigerian government in collaboration with NCC. The website it said is telling consumers that the “Nigerian government, in collaboration with NCC, was offering all Nigerian citizens up to 20GB of data to stay at home and get up-to-date information in a bid to counter the spread of COVID-19. All Nigeria citizens are entitled to free Internet connection to stay at home safely and enjoy the Internet in a bid to control the spread of COVID-19. The free Internet package is available to everyone starting from Friday, 27th March, 2020.” This message on the website, NCC said is deceptive. The commission further said “the website suspiciously asks Nigerians to apply for the free Internet by clicking a web link, which automatically takes them to a webpage with a dialogue box where they are expected to fill in their bio data and other demographics”. NCC categorically stated that neither the Nigerian government nor the Commission has issued such a message to Nigerian citizens. It strongly advised Nigerian citizens and all telecom consumers to beware of this fraudulent, false and spurious claim. The general public, it said, should discountenance the falsehood which has gained traction by the rise in tempo of its circulation. The message, NCC said, “should be disregarded in its entirety. The said website is a sham and a total deception to dupe Nigerians of their hard-earned money, and to harness personal data for fraudulent purposes.” The Commission warned Nigerians against the antics of cyber criminals, “who will want to take advantage of this challenging period of a rampaging pandemic, and the stay-at-home directive of the government to scam telecom consumers and the general public.”