FRSC Boss Seeks Coordination With Lagos FCTA To Prosecute Violators oThe Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has directed the Sector Commanders of his agency in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Lagos State to work with their respective state authorities to ensure effective Mobile Court operations set up for violators of the presidential order restricting movements in the effort to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The FCT and Lagos State and Ogun State have been on lockdown after President Muhammadu Buhari signed a two-week order restricting the movement on March 30th, which was later extended till April 27, 2020. Bisi Kazeem, the Corps Public Education Officer, said in a statement on Friday that the directive also applied to other states where mobile courts have been constituted by state governments for the same purpose. He said, “The mobile court has become necessary as a deterrent to discourage people from leaving their homes, “seeing that the only proven remedy to the spread of the virus is for the citizenry to abide by the sit at home order”. Kazeem said the mobile courts in Lagos had outlined different penalties for defaulting individuals, which “for individuals arrested violating the order, they will be liable to paying the sum of N10,000 as fine and also engage in community service for 7days.” Tricycle operators who violate the order, he said would pay the sum of N7000, while motorcycle operators will pay N7,000, cars   N20,000, and trucks N50,000. All the fines, he said also attract a seven-day compulsory community service. The statement also quoted the Corps Marshal as mandating the sector commanders of the affected states to brace up with the present reality and cooperate maximally with the government of Lagos State and the FCT administration for effective implementation of the mobile court operations. Kazeem revealed that the mobile courts in the FCT would be operating at three different locations namely; Mpape, Dantata Bridge by Airport Road and AYA Roundabout. Violators of the lockdown order he said, “will be tried and if found guilty, will be fined and their vehicles impounded until after the lockdown order is lifted.” He therefore cautioned that non-essential workers who did not have anything to do outside should avoid leaving their homes as the government was not ready to risk any further spread of the pandemic.