The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi has approved the release of five basic life support ambulances  complete with teams of medical personnel of the Corps and 30 active Close User Group lines, to the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. This is to help in facilitating the prompt evacuation of Coronavirus victims from point of identification to isolation centres. Bisi Kazeem, the Corps Public Education Officer, said in a statement on Wednesday that the approval came shortly after the request was presented to the Corps by the Coordinator, Ambulance and Emergency Response Unit of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr Sydney Ibeanusi, on Friday at the National headquarters of the Commission. Kazeem said Dr. Sydney presented the request on behalf of the PTF saying FRSC has always been at the fore front of national commitment and at this moment of global emergency, the PTF seeks to increasec the existing collaboration with the Corps in the area of emergency response services in a bid to enhance established collective efforts geared towards combating the dreaded virus. Dr. Sydney also stated that the need to activate the ambulance service system has become grossly consequential at this time that records have shown a consistent rise in the number of infected persons in the country which is already less than two dozens away from a thousand cases. The detailed FRSC health workers will be first subjected to intense training on personal protection, handling of victims and decontamination of the vehicle among others. They are to work for 2 weeks, after which they will be subjected to 2weeks isolation by the PTF in designated centres and certified negative before they can be allowed to reunite with their families and report back to duty. The Corps Marshal while reiterating the commitment of the Corps to the fight against COVID-19 in the country said that the Corps would always be readily available to offer the services of both personnel and its operational tools to support the Presidential Task Force in conquering the dreaded unseen enemy.