A mini drama played out in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State several days ago when a man told security agents that his son who had just come into the city was not welcome in his home until he had been tested and certified COVID-19 free. In a video that has since gone viral, an Ekiti father was seen insisting that his son, who had just arrived the state from Lagos State could not follow him home because of the fear of contracting COVID-19. According the man who has now been identified as Mr. Femi Adeoye, a retired officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), he had previously warned his son to stay back in Lagos but the young man disobeyed him. Adeoye was seen in the video telling the security officers in Ado Ekiti that he couldn’t risk contracting COVID-19 and therefore, would not take him home. “I can’t stand the risk of COVID-19.  Despite the fact that he’s my son, I cannot risk of COVID-19 because I had given him instruction not to travel and he travelled and I had been here since yesterday morning to complain to the security and I had been to Dr. Fashola and the Chief Security officer. I told them that if this boy should come that  I would not house him that he should get proper certification from the state before I could take him to my house.” Even when the security man on duty checked the son’s temperature and it was 36.2, he still insisted that the temperature test was just tentative and not conclusive. “Until he is isolated for 14 days, he will not enter my car and will not follow me home,” Adeoye insisted. The man was later seen driving away from the scene without the son. Meanwhile the Ekiti State government has commended Adeoye for not covering up his son’s travel history and for denying him access into his house without confirming his COVID-19 status. According to Mr. Muyiwa Olomilua, the Commissioner for Information and Value Orientation, in Ekiti, Adeoye’s son has been taken to one of the state’s designated quarantine centres where he would be for 14 days. Olomilua also disclosed that the Ekiti State government had suspended indefinitely, the security man who recorded the video and was also heard laughing over the situation and Adeoye’s stand.