The Supreme Court has declared Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress, the rightful winner of the March 9, 2019 governorship election in Imo State, sacking Emeka Ihedioha, candidate of the People’s Democratic Party. In a unanimous decision read by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, the Supreme Court faulted the Independent National Electoral Commission for declaring Ihedioha winner of the election, ruling that votes from 388 polling units in favour of the APC candidate were not recorded in the final results declared by the commission. The seven-man panel of the court in its verdict also ordered INEC to withdraw the certificate of return it had issued the PDP candidate. In the result declared by INEC, Ihedioha polled 274, 404 votes, Uche Nwosu of the Action Alliance had 190, 364 votes, Ifeanyi Ararume of the All Progressives Congress garnering 114, 576 votes, while Uzodinma came distant fourth with 96, 458 votes. The court, last month, had ruled that Nwosu, candidate of AA was not a valid candidate for the election. There were a total of three appeals against the election of Ihedioha. One each by the candidates of APC, AA and APGA. All three were dismissed in November 2019 by the Court of Appeal panel that sat on the Imo governorship election. Before declaring Uzodinma winner of the election, the court dismissed both the appeals of Nwosu of AA and that of Ararume of APGA. But Nwosu withdrew his appeal before the verdict dismissing it. Meanwhile the ruling have fulfilled the New Year prophecy of Rev. Ejike Mbaka, the Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry in Enugu, southeast . Mbaka told a crowd of worshipers at the watch night service at the new Adoration Ground in Emene, that a big change was coming to the Imo State Government House sooner than later. “In spite of all that would happen this year 2020,” he said, “there is hope. In Imo, there is hope. Hope, hope, hope. Imo people have suffered but God is raising a new hope that would be an agent of salvation for them. “He is coming with a new flag to restore the dignity of that noble land. A new leadership that will break barriers and there would be joy in the land of Imo. Lift your candles as I bless Hope Uzodinma and I empower him to spiritually take over.”