Abducted chairman of Adamawa State chapter of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Lawal Andimi, has called on CAN and the Adamawa State government to come to his rescue. Andimi, who was abducted by terrorists on January 3, following a raid on Michika, Adamawa State, made this call in a short video published on twitter by Ahmad Salkida. Dressed in a grey tracksuit with a bold orange stripes, with Boko Haram flag visible in the background of the video, Andimi called on his colleagues and Adamawa State government to come to his rescue. He said, “I am appealing to my colleagues, fellow reverends, particularly my president, Rev Joel Billy who is a strong man of compassion and love to do his best to speak to our governor, Umaru Jibrilla, (Umaru Jibrilla is a former governor of the state), and other necessary agent for my release from here.” He said the terrorists were kind, feeding him well and providing him a “nice place” to sleep. “These people have been good to me. They feed me with all want I want to eat. They provide a nice place for me to sleep. They did not do anything wrong to me. “So I believe He who make them act in such a way is still alive and will make all arrange for me to be with my wife, children and colleagues. “If the opportunity is not granted may be it is the will of God. All colleagues and people far and near, don’t cry don’t worry, but thank God for everything”, Andimi said. See full transcript of video below: I have never been discouraged. Because all condition one finds himself is in the hands of God. God who mad them to take care of me would still work and touch them. So in summary of my speech, I am appealing to my colleagues, fellow reverends, particularly my president, Rev Joel Billy who is a strong man of compassion and love to do his best to speak to our governor, Umaru Jibrilla and other necessary agent for my release from here. These people have been good to me. They feed me with all want I want to eat. They provide a nice place for me to sleep. They did not do anything wrong to me. So I believe He who made them act in such a way is still alive and will make all arrange for me to be with my wife, children and colleagues. If the opportunity is not granted may be it is the will of God. All colleagues and people far and near, don’t cry don’t worry, but thank God for everything.