The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offenses Commission (ICPC) has invited the Director General of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mary Uduk, over irregularities in contracts valued at N350m. The contracts in question relate to an Awards Night hosted by the commission on March 19, 2019 in Lagos, with some of N350m budgeted for the entire event and other expenses. Some were spent on souvenirs and N25m on plaques alone. And that is despite a government circular banning spending on souvenirs. The head of corporate communications at SEC, Efe Ebelo, did not give direct answers to TheInterview on whethe r some members of the commission’s top management had indeed been invited by ICPC and a number of them have honored the ICPC invitations. In response, she said, “I need to understand what you want to know how to get answers for you. Right now, the management are not around. I need to find out from them.” TheInterview however learnt that at the heart of the controversy was the decision of the acting director general to completely bypass the Procurement and Services Department of the commission in awarding the contracts. Sources said departmental heads refused to cooperate when the DG later tried to cover her tracks and create a proper paper trail. Now she is accused of breaching the Public Procurement Act 2007. And the breaching of the law extend to other contracts awarded during her tenure, not just on contracts for the award night. All are reportedly being investigated by ICPC. Instead of going through the procurement department, money was drawn directly from the Nigerian Capital Market Development Fund (NCMDF), which was registered at the Corporate Affairs Commission and has mostly been used by SEC to circumvent the TSA and also spend without necessarily waiting for appropriation approved by SEC board and ministry of finance. We reliably learnt that documents relating to the contracts and internal memos, some of which were sited by this publication, have already been tendered to the ICPC as evidence. They show staff raising questions about spending funds from NCMDF that were not captured in any budget. The Fund had a take off grant of N5bn when it was incorporated back in 2017. And unlike under the leadership of previous DGs, the spendings were also not approved by the ministry of finance. One such document now at the center of internal wrangling in SEC is a March 26, 2019 memo to the acting director general written by Edward Okolo, then the director of market development and now the executive commissioner in charge of corporate services. The memo referred to a meeting from a day earlier where the DG directed the secretariat of NCMDF to forward a memo to SEC’s procurement department to enable it issue award letters to contractors who supplied items used in the 2019 SEC Awards Night held in the previous week. Again, the March 26, 2019 memo clearly showed Okolo seeking written approval from Uduk to get the list, in form of a memo to absolve himself, of all contractors who supplied items for the award night and and also get extracts of the minutes of the meeting of NCMDF held on March 6, 2019. That NCMDF meeting was before the March 19, 2019 awards might. TheInterview could not get details or content of the minutes of that meeting. We also sited other documents which have reportedly been handed over to ICPC, relating to internal communications at SEC that showed the board of NCMDF had yet to be properly constituted and CAC forms showing members of the board to be personnel who had long left the commission or the NCMDF board. Some of the memos also advised the DG to suspend NCMDF board meetings, which she largely ignored. At least three management staff, including zonal heads and head of the finance department were invited by ICPC and appeared as far back December 5, 2019. And the ICPC demanded they turn over documents that had to do with the rehabilitation of the access road to the commission awarded to Napilino Contractor Limited, expansion of the security gate at the head office also to Napalino Contractor Limited and a dozen other contracts. A source with first hand knowledge of the financial transactions and award of contracts without due process in the commission provided TheInterview with details of events leading to the interrogation of Uduk in a three-hour long session by the ICPC on Friday, January 17, 2020. On the same day, Hussaini Dauda, the deputy director in charge of special duties at SEC was questioned by the anti-corruption commission on what he knows and his role in the award of the contracts. He claimed contracts for the awards night were issued without his involvement and his department. Apart from Uduk and Dauda, the source confirmed to TheInterview that Abubakar Gaya the Head of Department, Procurement at SEC was also interrogated by ICPC on Thursday, January 16, 2020. But both Dauda and Gaya claimed ignorance and absolved themselves of responsibility. Coincidentally, the DG of SEC paid to courtesy visit to the chairman of ICPC, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, in an obvious move to forestall an investigation into the breach. But, evidently, the visit wasn’t enough to distract the ICPC chairman who still invited Uduk for questioning the very next day. The spokesperson of ICPC, Rasheedat Okoduwa, did not answer her call when TheInterview tried to reach out to her.