The Nigerian Communication Commission, in 2019, eliminated a total of 24 million invalidly-registered subscriber records using Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), in fulfilment of the mandate to establish a credible database of telephone subscribers. The commission is reported to be working in an effort to boost Federal Government’s drive to promote security of lives and property, and was also acting in the Commission’s ongoing efforts towards sanitising the country’s SIM database for increased security in the country. According to officials of the commission, the executive vice chairman, Prof. Umar Danbatta is paying greater attention to the implementation of the Emergency Communications Centre (ECC) project was a top priority for the commission throughout 2019. In 2019, it activated and increased the number of operational ECC to 17 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital (FCT), Abuja – 18 ECC in all. The list includes: the FCT, Benue, Kwara, Plateau, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo, Oyo, Edo, Akwa Ibom, Cross Rivers, Imo, Anambra, Enugu and Adamawa. Subsequently, the commissioning of the National Emergency Toll-Free Number “112” and the Katsina State Emergency Communication Centre for the North West Zone was successfully carried out on September 23, 2019. Information from NCC media platforms show it is in preparation towards ensuring the successful launch/commissioning of such centres, including publicity and enlightenment in the remaining five (5) geopolitical zones and the FCT. NCC’s Danbatta was recently recognised as Nigeria’s Goodwill Ambassador in Security and Emergency Management while NCC, and as a corporate body, the commission was conferred with the award of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Security and Emergency Management. They received the awards earlier in December at the maiden Security and Emergency Management Awards hosted by the Emergency Digest, a publication of Image Merchants Promotion Limited, in conjunction with the Centre for Crisis Communication.