The Director General of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Prof. Habu Galadima, has died due to complications from COVID-19. The NIPSS confirmed the death in a tweet on Sunday Though the tweet didn’t mention the cause of his death, reliable sources who disclosed the COVID-19 connection to The Interview said the late DG took ill about a week ago after the graduation ceremony of the institute. The tweet read, “On behalf of the Board of Governors, Management and staff of the National Institute, we regret to announce the sudden demise of the Director General/CEO of NIPSS, Kuru, Prof Habu Shuaibu Galadima which occurred this morning 20 December, 2020 after a brief illness. “He will be buried according to Islamic rites.” The message was signed by Brigadier General CFJ Udaya(rtd), the Secretary/Director of Administration of NIPSS, Kuru, Plateau State. The Police Service Commission (PSC) has dismissed four senior Police Officers for misconduct and acts unbecoming of public officers. This is contained in a statement on Sunday by the PSC Head, Press and Public Relations, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani in Lagos. Ani said that the PSC took the decisions at the 10th Plenary Meeting presided over by its Chairman, Mr. Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police on Friday. “A Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), was dismissed for discreditable conduct, dishonesty and acts unbecoming of a public officer. “A Superintendent of Police (SP)was also dismissed for conspiring with four others to vandalise a transformer and stealing. The Commission has also directed that the officer should be prosecuted. “The two other dismissed officers included a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP )and an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP),” he said. Ani said that the DSP led a team that intercepted three mercedes benz trucks conveying about 300,000 live cartridges believed to have been smuggled across the border from Benin Republic. “The team was said to have impounded the trucks at base for three days but made no entries nor a situation report on the arrest. “The DSP rather raised a fake letter purportedly to escort the vehicles and suspects to Federal SARS Lagos with the dubious intention of ensuring their unlawful release. “Luck, however ran out of the team when it was intercepted at a military checkpoint where soldiers on duty insisted on verifying the contents of the trucks. The DSP and his team were said to have abandoned the trucks and fled,” he said. Ani said that the ASP was dismissed for action prejudicial to the security of the state; sabotage; dishonesty and acts unbecoming of a public officer. He said that the PSC had also during the meeting approved the promotion of four Assistant Inspectors General of Police to the substantive rank of Deputy Inspectors General of Police. (NAN)