United States President Donald Trump would have won the election in a “landslide” had he publicly showed empathy with regards to the COVID-19 pandemic, former campaign manager Brad Parscale said on Tuesday. “I thought we should have public empathy. I think people were scared,” Parscale said in an interview on Fox News, his first since the election. He called the move by Trump to push for more economic re-openings at a time when people were afraid and uncertain a “policy error,” even as he continued to express his support of the president more generally. READ ALSO: Trump Vows To Leave White House If Electoral College Votes For Biden Parscale worked on Trump’s 2016 successful White House run and was the campaign manager on the last attempt, but in July he was demoted within the organisation over finance issues and other concerns. “I think a young family, with a young child who were scared to take them back to school, wanted to see an empathetic president, and an empathetic Republican party — and I think that, and I said this multiple times, and he chose a different path,” Parscale said. Trump often downplayed the risks of COVID-19 while generally eschewing mask wearing in public. He presided over a large number of public events without social distancing, with at least one widely seen as having caused an outbreak. READ ALSO: US Election: Finally, Trump Says Transition Can Begin The president himself caught the virus as did a large number of people in his inner circle. Parscale is reportedly working on a book about his time with Trump. The National Human Rights Commission panel investigating allegations of human rights violations against the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) heard on Tuesday in Abuja how policemen in Rivers killed a young man in the presence of his mother. Petitioner Mrs. Victoria Agori made the allegation while testifying before the panel on a case she filed asking for the prosecution of the police officers that killed her son, Daniel Agori and the release of his body for burial. “Justine Adaka gave the order to kill my son and my son was killed right in my presence. “Daniel Agori did not make any statement before they killed him like a chicken. “These policemen are bad people.  They called me mother of a kidnapper and cultist but my son was neither a kidnapper nor a cultist. “He was a footballer and hairstylist. He was to travel to Spain.” When asked by James Idachaba, the respondent’s counsel, if the panel was the only place she had taken her case to, Agori said no, pointing out however, that the Federation of International Women Lawyers and some human rights activists had been helpful. She told the panel that she had been threatened repeatedly by unknown telephone numbers and that it was due to such threats that she had to leave Port Harcourt. Agori said that the police had been telling her for over a year that they were investigating the matter but that there had been no outcome on the investigation. Earlier, Counsel to Agori, Mr. Abiodun Olutekunbi, told the panel that the petitioner and her two sons, late Daniel and David and one Silver Ogbonna, Daniel’s fiancé were bundled to the Unit Command at Aluu in  Ikwerre, Rivers on May 10, 2019. He alleged that on arrival at the station, after a brief chat between SP. Justine Adaka and DSP. Yusuf Bello, in the presence of the petitioner the policemen ordered that the Daniel should be killed immediately. The counsel disclosed that the deceased was detached from a joint handcuff and blindfolded with a shirt and shot to death at point-blank range. Olutekunbi also alleged that Daniel’s mum was bleeding from her private part because the nozzle of a gun was used by the policemen to assault her. Asked what he wanted the panel to do for his clients, the lawyer said: “We want the panel to order the prosecution of SP. Justine Adaka, DSP. Yusuf Bello and Musa before a court of competent jurisdiction. “We also seek the order of the panel for the immediate release of the corpse of Daniel Agori for proper burial. “We further pray for the order of the panel for compensation of one billion naira.” He also prayed for an order of the panel to subpoen the public relations officer of the Inspector-General of Police Monitoring Unit in Rivers. The panel Chairman, Justice Suleiman Galadama, adjourned the matter until January 26 next year for continuation of hearing. (NAN)