Governors of the 19 northern states have donated N20m to the families of the 48 rice farmers killed in Borno, while the Northeast Development Commission donated another N5m. The 48 bereaved families of Zabarmari farmers received N600,000 each and bags of food items from a committee assigned by Governor Babagana Umara Zulum for the donations to the victims’ families. The committee, chaired by Borno’s commissioner for youths and sports, Saina Buba undertook Thursday’s distribution in Zabarmari. The committee included a member of house of representatives, representing Jere federal constituency, member of Borno assembly representing Jere, two special Advisers and chairman-elect, for Jere local government. Zabarmari, where the victims lived, is located at Jere, in central part of Borno State. A total of 13,000 Bags of Rice, Maize and Beans, 1,300 cans of vegetable oil,2116 cartons of seasoning Cubes, 1083 Tomato and 650 sachet of salts were donated by Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Social Development for distribution to the families, Committee Chairman, Buba announced. He noted that each family was to combine the N600,000 cash and food varieties not as compensation for the deaths of their loved ones, but to reduce hardship resulting from gaps in access to livelihoods created by the death of mostly male victims, who are breadwinners of those affected. The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has, between January and October 2020 generated N4.122trn. The Executive Chairman of FIRS, Muhammad Nami, said this at the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETfund)/FIRS 2020 joint interactive in Ilorin, Kwara. Nami was represented at the event by Nureni Fasola, the Sevice’s state coordinator of Oyo, Ogun and Osun. He said that the collection of non-oil revenue within the same period was N2.8trn while the oil revenue collection was N1.3trn. The amount collected for TETfund within that time, he said, is N251bn. The chairman board of trustees of the TETfund, Kashim Imam said, 226 tertiary institutions in the country would have N500 billion available to them from TETfund in 2021.