Mr. Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), said on Sunday he had gone into isolation after some members of his household tested positive to the COVID-19 pandemic. The message, which he personally signed, however indicated that Mustapha and his wife had tested negative. “My wife and I have tested negative to the virus but we shall remain in self isolation and work from home according to protocols by the health authorities. READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase “I will like to inform the general public that some members of my household tested positive for COVID-19 Saturday evening. Although they are currently asymptomatic, they have been isolated and are receiving care in one of the government treatment centres. “I want to remind all Nigerians that COVID-19 is real. As the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) announced last week, Nigeria is recording an increase in cases across several states. “My advice to the general public is to stay safe and protect themselves; everyone must adhere to all public health and safety measures. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Numbers Not Looking Good, NCDC Warns “We must observe all the protocols so that the nation will not lose the gains already recorded in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Mustapha also heads the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. (NAN) Another 18 generals of the Nigerian Army have tested positive for COVID-19, following the death of Major General Olu Irefin, who died of the coronavirus disease last week. Channels TV on Sunday quotes unnamed sources as confirming the 18 positive test results of the infected military officers who were in contact with late Irefin, who was General Officer Commanding, 6 Division, Port Harcourt, Rivers State of the Nigerian Army. READ ALSO: Nigerian Army Leaders Self-Isolate After GOC Dies Of COVID-19 The affected senior army officers all reportedly attended the 2020 Chief of Army Staff Annual Conference at the Nigerian Army Resource Centre in Abuja with the late Irefin. Thereafter, all the officers who attended the conference, their wives, and other members of their families who live with them, have been directed to isolate themselves for a week by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The generals that have tested positive  were mostly those based outside of Abuja and have been tested by officials of the NCDC.