President Muhammadu Buhari has saluted the sacrifices of 20 doctors reportedly killed by COVID-19 in the country, saying the welfare of frontline medical workers is a priority of his government. The president had sent his condolences to the Nigerian Medical Association over the death of the doctors due to the pandemic. Reacting to the sacrifices made by the frontline medical workers in a statement by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Saturday, the president said, “The death of our front line health workers in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic is particularly sad because these professionals risk their own lives in order to save others. ”Our health workers are making maximum sacrifices for the country in line with their humanitarian calling, and this administration will leave no stone unturned in order to ensure their needs are met.” He further noted that “our health workers are operating under severe limitations, but they are undeterred in discharging their duties in saving lives. “Let me say without any fear of contradiction that no reward is too much for the sacrifices of our health workers in the country, and this administration will give their welfare the priority it deserves.” Meanwhile, the president has also expressed his sadness over the demise of the Galadiman Lokoja, Chief Godwin Ajakpo, and retired Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga, a retired military governor and Chairman of Pan Niger Delta Forum. (NAN) The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the African continent has reached 2,597,090 as of Friday afternoon, the Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) said. The continental disease control and prevention agency said in a statement that the death toll related to the pandemic stood at 61,432 while a total of 2,177,981 people infected with COVID-19 have recovered across the continent. READ ALSO: Lagos, Kaduna, FCT Account For 70% Of COVID-19 Infections The most affected African countries in terms of the number of positive cases include South Africa, Morocco, Egypt, and Tunisia, figures from the Africa CDC showed. South Africa currently has the most COVID-19 cases, which hit 968,563. Morocco comes next with 425,864 confirmed COVID-19 cases, followed by Egypt with 128,993 confirmed cases and Tunisia with 126,752 confirmed cases. (NAN)