President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed optimism that improvement in relations between Nigeria and South Africa will speed up the process of development on the African continent. The president spoke while receiving the Chairman of the African National Congress (ANC) and South Africa’s Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy, Gwede Mantashe, who came to the State House, Abuja on Friday as Special Envoy of his country. In a statement signed by Garba Shehu, a presidential spokesman, the president was quoted as citing his last trip to South Africa during which he and President Cyril Ramaphosa worked together in resolving the migrants’ crisis between two brotherly nations. Buhari told the envoy that there was this ‘small problem’ between the two countries. “I went there and we resolved it.” Shehu further said in the statement, “He directed the Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva to work with his South African counterpart on the requests he brought and report back to him for his action. “The South African minister, who presented a letter from President Ramaphosa, said the relationship between Nigeria and his country was key to the development aspirations of the continent.” While emphasising that the two nations need to work as partners, Mantashe said “this relationship will determine the future of Africa.” President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with the people and government of Plateau State over the passing of an illustrious son and highly decorated retired military officer, General Domkat Bali. The president’s condolence message is contained in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Friday. Buhari, who spoke with the wife of the deceased, Esther on Friday, also commiserated with other family members, friends and professional associates of the former member of the Supreme Military Council and Armed Forces Ruling Council. He noted that Bali, after rising through the ranks, with a distinguished military career, reaching the peak as Chief of Defence Staff, served the country meritoriously as Minister of Defence. According to him, the records of bravery and patriotism of Bali, the Ponzhi Tarok, will continue to inspire young military officers, while the foundation he laid in all the commands he headed will always be remembered. Buhari prayed that the almighty God would receive the soul of the departed and comfort his family. Meanwhile, the President has also constituted a delegation led by the Minister of Defence, retired Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi to visit the family, and condole with government and people of the state over the loss.