President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the death of Prof. Habu Galadima, the Director General, National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS). In a condolence message by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Sunday,  the president described Galadima as ”an intellectual colossus who stood tall in the field of scholarship and knowledge”. He added that Galadima was an eloquent and remarkable intellectual whose contributions to scholarship were vast and remarkable. “Nigeria will continue to remember him for these contributions,” the statement quoted Buhari as saying. The president commiserated with the late professor’s family, friends, the government and people of Nasarawa State, and prayed to God to forgive his sins and grant him eternal rest. In the same vein Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau has also described the death of Prof. Habu Galadima, the Director-General of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, near Jos, as a “great loss” to Nigeria. Lalong said this in a statement issued by his Director of Press and Public Affairs (DOPA), Dr Makut Macham, in Jos. He said that the demise of Galadima was a huge loss to his immediate family, NIPSS, Plateau and Nasarawa states. He said that the deceased would be greatly missed by the academic community in Nigeria and the Diaspora. “Prof. Galadima is an astute scholar of international repute, administrator and professional who demonstrated uncommon commitment in carrying out every responsibility he was assigned. “Since he assumed office one year ago, Galadima had injected a fresh impetus in the management of the nation’s apex policy and strategic institution by introducing new concepts that made research seamless even under the current COVID-19 pandemic. “He did a lot to improve the physical infrastructure of the institution while strengthening the academic experience for all course participants. He will be greatly missed. “The late erudite scholar has over the years contributed a lot to the educational development of Plateau, having studied and taught at the University of Jos for many years before his appointment as the DG of NIPSS,” the governor said. He prayed God to grant his soul eternal rest and comfort his family, the management and staff of NIPSS. Galadima, 57, died Sunday morning after a brief illness. (NAN)