UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has condemned the attack by suspected bandits at Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State on December 11. Guterres’ reaction came in a statement by UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric on Monday in New York. He called for “immediate and unconditional” release of no fewer than 300 male students, the attackers reportedly abducted from the school. “The secretary-general strongly condemns the December 11 attack on a secondary school in Katsina State, Nigeria and the reported abduction of hundreds of boys by suspected armed bandits. “He calls for the immediate and unconditional release of the abducted children and for their safe return to their families. “The secretary-general reiterates that attacks on schools and other educational facilities constitute a grave violation of human rights.” The UN chief urged security agencies to arrest and bring those responsible for the heinous act to justice. He reaffirmed the “solidarity and support” of the organisation to the Federal Government and Nigerians in their fight “against terror, violent extremism and organised crime”. The UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has also flayed the abduction and called for the boys’ immediate release. In a statement, the agency said it is “deeply concerned about these acts of violence”, describing attacks on schools as a violation of children’s rights. “UNICEF condemns in the strongest possible terms this brutal attack and calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all children and their return to their families.” Its Regional Director for West and Central Africa, Marie-Pierre Poirier, issued a separate statement expressing solidarity with the families of the students and their communities. Poitier said that the violence was a “grim reminder” that abductions of children and widespread grave violations of children’s rights continue to take place in the northern part of Nigeria. “Children should feel safe at home, in schools and in their playgrounds at all times. “We stand with the families of the missing children and the community affected by this horrifying event,” she said. (NAN) The Nigerian Army has provided detailed account and sequence of events leading to the death of the erstwhile General Officer Commanding 6 Division, Port Harcourt, Maj.-Gen. John Irefin on December 10. The Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Sagir Musa, in a statement on Sunday, said the explanation was essential to ward off insinuations of unwholesome act on the sad incident. Musa said that the sudden death of the late general was no doubt a great loss to the Nigerian Army, his family and the country at large. “The  Nigerian Army wishes to inform the public the sequence of events that led to the death of the late senior officer,” he announced. READ ALSO: Nigerian Army Leaders Self-Isolate After GOC Dies Of COVID-19 He said that the just concluded Chief of Army Staff Annual Conference 2020, which started on December 7 after the virtual declaration by President Muhammadu Buhari has all principal officers, GOCs, commanders, commandants and directors, among others, as participants. Musa said that the late Irefin was among the senior officers who were at Giri where Army Cyber Warfare Command Headquarters was virtually inaugurated by President Buhari. He explained that while at Giri, the general started complaining of discomfort. “In spite of the discomfort, he was at Phase 2 in Life Camp for the ground breaking of housing scheme for families of killed-in-action officers and soldiers from where he left the venue for his accommodation. “He was later taken to Defence Medical Centre same day at about 21:25 hours, having complained of fever, headache and mild cough. “Medical history revealed that he was treated for malaria with parenteral artemether a week ago at 6 Division Medical Services and Hospital Port Harcourt where he was the GOC. “He had fever but oxygen saturation was normal at 99 per cent. READ ALSO: SGF, Wife In isolation As Household Members Contract COVID-19 “Other vital signs were essentially stable on presentation,” he said. The army spokesperson further said that a working diagnosis of drug resistant malaria to rule out lobar pneumonia and COVID-19 infection was made, adding that he was also placed on cefriaxone and COVID-19 test was requested. He noted that in the morning of December 8, the fever and cough subsided and he was eating well. “On the same day, he was discharged after his sample for COVID-19 test had been taken and was requested to self isolate pending the outcome of the test. “On December 9, the result of the COVID-19 test conducted on him was positive. “As a result, he was taken to 063 Nigerian Airforce Hospital, Abuja, where his oxygen saturation was noted to be well reduced. “He was then immediately taken to Gwagwalada Specialist Hospital, Abuja, by the Commander 063 NAF Hospital for further management. “At the hospital, he was immediately admitted and placed on high flow oxygen. “An initial improvement of 80 to 82 per cent oxygen saturation was noticed. “He was then commenced on Anti viral agent remdesivir based on the COVID-19 test result. “Other treatment included the usual COVID-19 treatment cocktail. READ ALSO: 18 Army Generals Test Positive For COVID-19 “Unfortunately, in spite of these efforts, at about 05:10 hours on Thursday, December 10, the Commander 063 NAF Hospital Abuja was informed that the senior officer desaturated again and eventually died. Musa said that the cause of Irefin’s death was reported as respiratory failure secondary to the complications of COVID-19 infection. “This explanation is essential in order to ward off mischievous and wicked insinuations from certain quarters alluding unwholesome act as responsible for the death of the respected senior officer. “The Nigerian Army wishes to once again console and extend its condolences to the family he left behind. “May his gentle soul rest in perfect peace Ameen,” he said. (NAN)