AthleticsAfrica has announced that Ghanaian athlete, Nadia Eke, will host the season two of the BETA CONVO live conversation show from December 2020. The AthleticsAfrica team provides up-to-date track and field news, marathon and live events information, comment, results, images and videos about African athletes from the heart of Africa on
mobile and web. It said in a statement that, “Ms Eke, the Founder and CEO of Axxelerate, joins as host after taking part in season one of the show. “As a professional athlete with background in college athletics, higher education and the non-profit
sector, Nadia brings both industry insight and professional network to the show.” AthleticsAfrica stated, “Additionally, as a four-time NCAA All-American, former Ivy-League Woman of the Year, and accomplished national record-holding athlete, Nadia understands what it means to succeed at the highest level athletically, academically and professionally. “Nadia’s Triple jump Personal Best and Ghanaian record of 14.33m (+0.8) was set in Kingston, Jamaica
on the 8th June 2019.” She won a silver medal at the 2014 CAA African Championships in Marrakech, Morocco and took the bronze at the 2015 African Games in Brazzaville, Republic of the Congo. In 2016, she became the African triple jump champion in Durban, South Africa. Editor in Chief of AthleticsAfrica, Yomi Omogbeja said, “I’m totally chuffed Nadia has agreed to host BETA CONVO for us, and for the partnership with Axxelerate to engage and provide the necessary mentorship for African athletes as they transit from their professional career to life beyond the sport.” “BETA CONVO is our flagship podcast and conversation series where we have real conversations with
current and retired African athletes with a view to get to know them better, and to connect them to the fans of the sport on the continent.” The first episode of BETA CONVO Season Two will air on AthleticsAfrica TV on YouTube on Sunday 6
December 2020 at 7.00pm GMT. AthleticsAfrica launched as Africa’s first dedicated track and field digital website in July 2004.