President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim as the new Director-General of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP). Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity said in a statement on Tuesday that Sulaiman-Ibrahim is a holder of BSc (Sociology), Masters of Arts (Management) and Masters of Business Administration (MBA) degrees, Mrs. Sulaiman-Ibrahim, hails from Nasarawa State. Until her new appointment, she was a member of the Nasarawa State Economic Advisory Council as well as Special Adviser on Strategic Communication to the Minister of State for Education. She replaces Mrs. Julie Okah-Donli, who was recently appointed chairman of the Board of Trustees of the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons (UNVTF). United States President Donald Trump would have won the election in a “landslide” had he publicly showed empathy with regards to the COVID-19 pandemic, former campaign manager Brad Parscale said on Tuesday. “I thought we should have public empathy. I think people were scared,” Parscale said in an interview on Fox News, his first since the election. He called the move by Trump to push for more economic re-openings at a time when people were afraid and uncertain a “policy error,” even as he continued to express his support of the president more generally. READ ALSO: Trump Vows To Leave White House If Electoral College Votes For Biden Parscale worked on Trump’s 2016 successful White House run and was the campaign manager on the last attempt, but in July he was demoted within the organisation over finance issues and other concerns. “I think a young family, with a young child who were scared to take them back to school, wanted to see an empathetic president, and an empathetic Republican party — and I think that, and I said this multiple times, and he chose a different path,” Parscale said. Trump often downplayed the risks of COVID-19 while generally eschewing mask wearing in public. He presided over a large number of public events without social distancing, with at least one widely seen as having caused an outbreak. READ ALSO: US Election: Finally, Trump Says Transition Can Begin The president himself caught the virus as did a large number of people in his inner circle. Parscale is reportedly working on a book about his time with Trump.