The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has recorded 418 new cases of COVID-19  in the country. The NCDC made this known on its verified website on Sunday night. It said the new cases were recorded in 16 states and the Federal Capital Territory(FCT). The health agency said that Lagos State topped  the chart with 113 new infections followed by the FCT, Abia and Kaduna with 86, 47 and 39 cases respectively. Others were Rivers-27, Katsina-22, Benue-14, Oyo-13, Kano-12, Enugu-8, Edo-7, Imo-7, Bauchi-6, Ebonyi-6, Ogun-6, Ondo-4 and Nasarawa-1. The NCDC also stated that 240 patients had recovered and had been discharged in the last 24 hours. “Our discharges today include 74 community recoveries in Kaduna State, 49 in Lagos State, 29 in Abia State and 20 in Plateau State, managed in line with guidelines,” it said. The health agency, which said three additional coronavirus-related deaths were recorded, added that the new infections brought the total number of COVID-19 cases in the country to 73,175. The agency also said that a multi-sectoral national Emergency Operations Centre, activated at Level 3, was coordinating response activities. The country had conducted about 845,458 tests since the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was announced. The NCDC further said that till date, 66,090 cases had been discharged while 1,197 deaths had been recorded in the 36 states and the FCT. It advised Nigerians to ensure they wash their  hands with soap in running water while also observing all other safety protocols. Mr. Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), said on Sunday he had gone into isolation after some members of his household tested positive to the COVID-19 pandemic. The message, which he personally signed, however indicated that Mustapha and his wife had tested negative. “My wife and I have tested negative to the virus but we shall remain in self isolation and work from home according to protocols by the health authorities. READ ALSO: COVID-19: ‘Not Yet Uhuru,’ PTF Says, Briefs Buhari On Next Lockdown Easing Phase “I will like to inform the general public that some members of my household tested positive for COVID-19 Saturday evening. Although they are currently asymptomatic, they have been isolated and are receiving care in one of the government treatment centres. “I want to remind all Nigerians that COVID-19 is real. As the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) announced last week, Nigeria is recording an increase in cases across several states. “My advice to the general public is to stay safe and protect themselves; everyone must adhere to all public health and safety measures. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Numbers Not Looking Good, NCDC Warns “We must observe all the protocols so that the nation will not lose the gains already recorded in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Mustapha also heads the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. (NAN)