The EU will ban the export of plastic waste from the bloc to poor countries effective from Jan. 1, it said on Tuesday following concerns about pollution in third world countries. Plastic exports would also be “more strictly controlled,” according to the European Commission. The new rules still allow for “clean plastic waste sent for recycling” to be exported to countries not part of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), according to a statement. Reports say that following China’s ban on plastic imports at the beginning of 2018, previously a major destination for plastic waste, plastic trade shifted to other countries in Asia, such as Malaysia. With no, or not sufficient, recycling facilities established in those countries, the EU’s exports sparked criticism from environmentalists, who claim that much of the bloc’s waste ends up in oceans or being burned in open fires. “These new rules send a clear message that in the EU we are taking responsibility for the waste we generate,” Environment Commissioner Virginijus Sinkevicius said. “The export of unsorted plastic waste to non-OECD countries will be completely banned,” he added. (dpa/NAN) The Kaduna State Government has earmarked N2.8bn to be spent on Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) interventions in 2021 under its Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency. The amount is contained in the 2021 budget approved document obtained by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna on Tuesday. The document also showed that N1.4bn was earmarked as a marching grant for Partnership for Expanded Water Supply, Hygiene and Sanitation (PEWASH) project. In the budget document, N924.7m was allocated for the construction and installation of 675 hand pumps boreholes as well as procurement of two drilling rigs and accompanying equipment at N622.8 million and N301.9 million respectively. The document also indicated that N262.4m was earmarked for the construction of 1,716 blocks of gender-sensitive sanitation facilities in institutions and public places. N79.8m will be spent on refurbishing and maintenance of three units of drilling rigs and components as well as the purchase of workshop materials. The government, however, allocated N51.7m for the institutionalisation of the Village Level Operation and Maintenance concept in 525 communities for the sustainability of PEWASH facilities and N1.2 million for conducts of quarterly campaigns to promote effective hand washing. According to the document, N4.7m was earmarked to train 414 facilitators of community-led total sanitation in the 23 local government areas of the state. The document added that N54.8m would be spent on mechanisms for tracking, monitoring, contract management, media and publicity, supervision among other logistics in all project sites. The budget document equally showed that the state government allocated N32.8 million to the state’s Water Service Regulatory Commission for capital projects in 2021. Of the amount, N12.5m  would be expended on water resources infrastructure assessment and N4.9m on development of the mini-water quality laboratory. Also, N4.3m was earmarked for the development and management of information and communication technology facilities while N11 million would be expended on development and production of regulations, standards and guidelines. (NAN)