The United States President-elect, Joe Biden, on Monday said it was time for outgoing President Donald Trump to stop grandstanding and concede the Nov. 3 election. Addressing the nation shortly after the Electoral College confirmed his victory in the November 3 general polls, Biden said the “will of the people prevailed”. He said Trump’s refusal to accept defeat after his several lawsuits failed up to the Supreme Court was an “unprecedented assault on our democracy”. He stated that the country’s democracy had been “pushed, tested and threatened” but “proved to be resilient, true and strong”. READ ALSO: Trump Vows To Leave White House If Electoral College Votes For Biden “The flame of democracy was lit in this nation a long time ago, and we now know that nothing, not even a pandemic or an abuse of power can extinguish that flame. “This is the biggest voter turn out in the history of the United States of America. “The number is so big that this election now ranks the clearest demonstration of the true will of the American people. “Together, Vice President-elect Harris and I earned 306 electoral votes, well exceeding the 270 electoral votes needed to secure victory. “Three hundred and six electoral votes is the same number of electoral votes that Donald Trump and Vice President Pence received when they won in 2016. “At the time, President Trump called the electoral college a landslide. And I respectfully suggest he does so now,” the president-elect said. Biden won the November election with received 306 electoral votes, against Trump’s 232. READ ALSO: Trump Insists Biden Won Election Through Rigging The next step is the transmission of the votes to a joint session of Congress presided over by Vice President Pence on Jan. 6 for counting and final confirmation. This will pave the way for Biden’s inauguration on Jan. 20. Trump said in November that he would step aside in January if the electoral college ratified Biden’s victory. (NAN) UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has condemned the attack by suspected bandits at Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State on December 11. Guterres’ reaction came in a statement by UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric on Monday in New York. He called for “immediate and unconditional” release of no fewer than 300 male students, the attackers reportedly abducted from the school. “The secretary-general strongly condemns the December 11 attack on a secondary school in Katsina State, Nigeria and the reported abduction of hundreds of boys by suspected armed bandits. “He calls for the immediate and unconditional release of the abducted children and for their safe return to their families. “The secretary-general reiterates that attacks on schools and other educational facilities constitute a grave violation of human rights.” The UN chief urged security agencies to arrest and bring those responsible for the heinous act to justice. He reaffirmed the “solidarity and support” of the organisation to the Federal Government and Nigerians in their fight “against terror, violent extremism and organised crime”. The UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has also flayed the abduction and called for the boys’ immediate release. In a statement, the agency said it is “deeply concerned about these acts of violence”, describing attacks on schools as a violation of children’s rights. “UNICEF condemns in the strongest possible terms this brutal attack and calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all children and their return to their families.” Its Regional Director for West and Central Africa, Marie-Pierre Poirier, issued a separate statement expressing solidarity with the families of the students and their communities. Poitier said that the violence was a “grim reminder” that abductions of children and widespread grave violations of children’s rights continue to take place in the northern part of Nigeria. “Children should feel safe at home, in schools and in their playgrounds at all times. “We stand with the families of the missing children and the community affected by this horrifying event,” she said. (NAN)