The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Tanko Muhammad has tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19). Justice Ibrahim Saulawa of the Supreme Court confirmed the positive status of the Chief Justice during the unveiling of the national headquarters of Muslim Lawyers’ Association of Nigeria (MULAN) on Tuesday in Abuja. Sources have confirmed that the wife of the Chief Justice has also tested positive for the coronavirus. The Chief Justice is said to be receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Rumours swelled on Monday about the health of the CJN after he failed to preside over the swearing-in ceremony of 72 Senior Advocates if Nigeria. Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour, who is the most senior justice of the Supreme Court, administered oaths to the new SANs. The Nigerian Communications Commission has won the International Public Relations Association (IPRA) Golden World Awards (GWA) 2020 for its harmonized emergency number, 112 and the construction of Emergency Communications Centers (ECCs) in 36 states of the Federation and the FCT with 19 states already operational and additional 5 ready for activation. Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of public affairs said in a statement on Monday that the presentation of the IPRA Golden Global Awards (GGA) 2020 to the Commission had been scheduled to hold earlier this year in Germany but could not hold because of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the NCC also received the African Public Relations Association’s (APRA) Certificate of Excellence for its efforts in “leveraging the emergency communication centres for national security.” However, at the Security and Emergency Management Award (SAEMA) 2020, where the President of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Malam Mukhtar Sirajo, handed over the coveted trophies to  the Director, Public Affairs of the Commission, Dr. Ikechukwu, the NCC  was declared Winner of ‘Emergency Management Security and Emergency Management Award. The statement read, “The NIPR President commended the NCC for a culture of professionalism in the management of its corporate communications and public relations, noting that this has been largely responsible its enviable corporate image and the many awards it had attracted over the years.’’ NCC was also presented with a Certificate of Excellence for ‘Outstanding Accomplishments in Category of Emergency Management’ at the award. Speaking at the event, Malam Yusheu Shuaibu of Image Merchants Promotion Limited, lauded the NCC for launching an impressive campaign on its emergency communications project. “The ECCs were activated as a one-stop shop for receiving distress calls from the public and dispatching same to appropriate Emergency Response Agencies (ERAs) for timely response and resolution of the distress. “The ECC project had been in limbo until a new management under the leadership of Danbatta, embarked on the construction and operationalisation of the ECCs across states of Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) till date,” he explained. At the maiden edition in 2019,  the Executive Vice Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, Prof Umar Garba Danbatta was recognised as ‘Nigeria’s Goodwill Ambassador for Security and Emergency Management in Nigeria’ while the NCC, as a corporate organisation, was given with the ‘Corporate Social responsibility Award in Security and Emergency Management in the country.’