The management of the Adamawa State Polytechnic has indicted four lecturers over exam malpractice and recommended them for immediate dismissal. A statement from the polytechnic said that, “Four staff of the Adamawa State Polytechnic, Yola, who have been found to be involved in examination result alterations and awarding fake results to students who did not sit for the exams have been recommended by the management for termination of their appointments.” The statement signed and made available to journalists Thursday by Information and Public Relations Officer of the Polytechnic, Albert Matilah, said the management took the disciplinary measure following a meeting, which considered the report of a committee it set up earlier to verify certain exam results following complaints of alterations by some lecturers. According to the statement the indicted lecturer include: Abubakar Babale, Paul Wache, Usman Hammarwabi and Isa Ribadu. Abubakar Babale, a former Head of Department (HOD0, Mass Communication was alleged to have tampered with 727 candidates’ results in 21 courses. He was also accused of giving fake results to some students who did not write examination. Paul Wache, accused of alterations in 83 results in 12 courses, was said to have cited human error, even as he contended with the charge of giving fake results to students who did not write the paper as testified by the course lecturer. Usman Hammarwabi was accused of forgery and numerous alterations and allocation of fake results and other unprofessional acts, while Isa Ribadu was accused of numerous alterations of results and allocation of fake marks. The statement further said the lecturers were given opportunity to defend themselves before the investigative Committee and that, ‘’ they pleaded guilty to the offences.’’ It said all recommendations had been forwarded to the Ministry of Tertiary and Professional Education, the ministry overseeing the institution, for further action. In the meantime efforts to get the affected lecturers proved abortive as none of them picked calls or responded to text messages.