It’s been eight years since Tobiloba, a Nigerian-born artiste and songwriter from Osun State visited home. Based in Romania where he works as a medical doctor and pursues his passion in music and other entertainment related events, the artiste born Omole Oluwatobiloba who recently released a single ‘Ibu Chimo’ still misses home. He speaks to The Interview, about his music, his fond memories of home and general perception about the music industry. How is Romania? Romania is good. The people are lovely, the weather is chilly at the moment. Generally, it’s a beautiful place. As beautiful as home? Definitely not! The things that make home beautiful go a little deeper than anything physical, so home will still be home… always. How often do you come home? Not been home in a long time. Eight years to be precise and it is not intentional. I had to med school out. What are your fond memories of home? First, it would be just being at home. We sometimes don’t really understand the beauty of that; being in your own space with your own people, that in itself is a thing to cherish. But I miss little things I took for granted. I remember eating one particular ‘meat pie’ a few days ago made by a Nigerian immigrant. The taste of it sent me back in my mind to the classic Mr Biggs feel of meat pie. The memories attached to it, the nostalgic feeling it evoked. Other memories would be bordered around people I love, my friends and family and the times we shared together. However, when I miss these things, I remind myself of why I am here in the first place and I must not take the opportunity to be the best I can lightly so that if God wills he can use me to light a path for others. How did you discover your passion for music? Music was with me all the while but I never saw it as a profession. It initially came across as a hobby. It had been building up since 2011, I felt like my life was going in that direction  but my first major professional step was in 2013 when I recorded my first single ‘Kosenibire’ which I officially released much later in 2015. I try as much as possible to address issues that affect us humans and to find the courage to free my mind of any self-serving bias, and allow that to reflect in the content of my music Did you get any formal training in music to hone your skills? Yes I did, and I attended a few classes to hone my skills. But even before I made that decision, I already had some level of knowledge and experience around playing music. How would you describe your music? In one word, truth. In what ways do you express this truth in your music? I try as much as possible to address issues that affect us humans and to find the courage to free my mind of any self-serving bias, and allow that to reflect in the content of my music. That’s the one thing that I want to be constant through every piece I write regardless of style or genre. Are you impressed by the structure of the Nigerian music industry? We are getting better by the day. People are working hard to build the structure and I genuinely appreciate that. We are definitely not where we were yesterday so I will say I am very impressed. We just need to give positive content more room, not only sex appeal or money thirst, that the world is pushing. It doesn’t mean we must follow that trend but structure wise, we will soon take over the world even more than we are already doing. How do you balance your music and your medical career? The first step is I believe it’s possible, understand why I am doing both and see the picture I have in mind ahead. Secondly, I need to be very organised and disciplined. I don’t laze around when I should be getting things on one side done, because a little luxury of laziness on one side will eat out of the other. I also have learnt to leverage.  One man is not enough to build greatness, so I have an amazing team that stands by me. Lastly, I know God’s got me cause he has placed both in my hands in this season, so there is grace.