Super Eagles goalkeeper trainer, Alloy Agu, has said that the recent performance of some of the national team players for their clubs is a good omen for the country ahead of the qualifiers where Nigeria will be taking on Cape Verde, Central Africa Republic and Liberia in Group C of the qualifiers. Excerpt… What’s your take on the Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifying draw conducted recently in Cairo? The draws is a good one for us, every country making it to the group stage is formidable. Therefore, there are no pushovers in that group. We have to give it our all to qualify from the group. The expectation of everyone is for us to be at the World Cup. Therefore, we will go out there and take every game as it comes because it requires serious commitment. Which team will be the biggest threat to Super Eagles in that group? Like I said, no team is to be underrated; they are all good. We are not going to look down or any team, likewise they are not going to look down on us. It is now down to who want it very much and seriously I want to be at the World Cup so I will say we want it more than them. We are going to get the needed results. What has been the players’ reaction to the draw as I’m sure you must have been talking to some of them? We are all working towards the same plans, the players and also the coaching crew. The most important thing is for the Super Eagles to be at Qatar 2022. The fact still remains that for us to be at the World Cup we must take all the games as it comes, we must be committed to all the games and also be very disciplined in playing those matches. I have that belief that we are going to qualify for the World Cup. What is the implication of transfer of some of Nigeria players to new clubs recently and also the improved performance of some of them for their clubs? I am an advocate of ‘Your performance is your bargaining power’. They have been so superlative in their various clubs and also for the country. Such performances allowed them to get a transfer or maintain their position in their current clubs. Most importantly, the more you play the more you are getting better. It is a good one for the country; it’s a win-win situation for Nigeria and the super Eagles. We are happy that all our players are doing well in their various clubs so it is a good one ahead of the qualifiers.