The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) is making plans to manage traffic during the Argungu International Fishing Festival which will include a motor rally from Abuja to Kebbi and a cycling competition. A statement by RC Aminu Alhaji Sokoto, the zonal public education officer in Sokoto said the zone was mapping out strategies aimed at ensuring free flow of traffic and ensuring safety of lives and property during the festival that comes up in the first week of March 2020. The statement quoted the zonal commanding officer, Assistant Corps Marshal Dr Kayode Olagunju, as laying out the plan during a courtesy call to the Emir of Argungu Alhaji Muhammad Mera CON on Wednesday in the emir’s palace. The zonal commanding officer, the statement said, expressed appreciation for the support and cooperation of the Emir and the Emirate Council to the FRSC and assured the royal father that the Corps will continue to partner with the community to evolve better road culture in the area. Alhaji Sokoto said, “ACM Olagunju informed the Emir that the National Headquarter of the Corps has also assured of interventions that would result in effective management of traffic during the festival, moreso many of the activities such as Motor Rally from Abuja to Argungu, cycling competition will take place on the road. “The traffic density is expected to be high as the festival attracts global attention hence influx of people into the community. Dr. Olagunju also informed the Emir that three help areas that would work twenty four hours would also be established in the area to assist during emergencies.” Olagunju further disclosed that ambulances would be provided and marshals stationed at those points to render assistance to tourists and other road users. He assured that the FRSC would collaborate with other security agencies to protect people and properties before, during and after the festival. In his response, the Emir thanked the FRSC for aligning with the hopes and aspirations of the people of Kebbi State in ensuring road safety. He assured the FRSC of his maximum support as the community believes in sanctity of lives. He appreciated the quick response of the Corp Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, in providing new vehicles to the Argungu Unit Command among other Logistics and also commended the efforts of the officers and men of the Corps in the area.