Suspected members of the Boko Haram sect were reported to have killed many people in Garkida, a town in Gombi local government area of Adamawa State, according to fleeing residents. The insurgents attacked and sacked the ancient missionary town on Friday evening, causing huge devastation. Locals say that the insurgents broke into the town around 7 pm on Friday, shooting sporadically. Soldiers who were said to have engaged them in a gun battle later pulled back for reinforcement. “After the security operatives beat a retreat, the insurgents were said to have moved into the town fully, setting many houses on fire. “Garkida is currently on fire, many people were suspected to have been killed and our houses covered with smoke,” a local who claimed to have escaped by whisker has said. The source said having wreaked havoc on Garkida, the insurgents advanced to neighbouring towns. Another source corroborated his account but said the security operatives had returned to the town. “People ran to hide inside the mountains while they watched their houses being burnt by the insurgents,” another resident said. Police barracks, churches and a house belonging to General Paul Tarfa were among several buildings torched during the attack. A source from Garkida, Andrawus Tarfa, narrated how the hoodlums looted the town and set fire to major structures unhindered. He said, “They came in droves, with about 14 vans and plundered the town; they looted pharmaceutical shops and food stuff. “They had unfettered access because a battalion of troops in the town was withdrawn sometimes back, leaving behind just a pocket of soldiers who could not repel the insurgents. “After looting, they burnt down a police barracks, police station, two churches, Living Faith and EYN, and a shopping mall. “People were also killed but I have no record as of now. “They have also razed General Paul Tarfa’s resident, among other important buildings in the town.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Suleiman Nguroje, has confirmed the attack. He disclosed that policemen and other security personnel had been drafted to Gombi town and its environs, to prevent the insurgents from gaining access to the town. The command’s spokesman, however, could not give details of the attack while the time the insurgents carried out the attack has yet to be ascertained.