A youth and advocacy group, Ndokwa Youths, has threatened to shut down oil production in Ndokwa, Delta State over political interference by the Nigerian Senate in the creation of Kwale  Polytechnic. They said, “Ndokwa Nation has the highest, largest oil and gas reserves in the whole West African region. Any further actions by the Nigeria Senate to stall the Federal Polytechnic in Kwale will be treated as a deliberate act and we will have no other options than to shut down all oil and gas facilities in Ndokwa Land.” In an open letter to the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, the youth and community group pointed accusing fingers at the deputy senate president, Ovie Omo-Agege of trying to move the polytechnic from Kwale to his own constituency in Orogun, Delta state even though the House of Representatives has already approved a bill for the creation of Kwale Polytechnic in Ndokwa. The letter jointly signed by at least 15 of its members reads, “We the umbrella and apex youth body of Ndokwa Nation write with great displeasure over the unwarranted biased moves by the Nigerian Senate, particularly the deputy Senate President Ovie Omo Agege, to subvert the already passed bill by the House of Representatives for the Establishment of Kwale Polytechnic.” The group said that the bill for the establishment of Federal Polytechnic in Kwale by the House of Representatives should be considered by the Nigerian Senate. Ndokwa Youth said in the letter, “That the deputy Senate president should look for another thing to attract to his Orogun community and not already passed bill of Kwale Polytechnic. “Ndokwa Nation is the host of Multi-billion Independent Power Plant in Okpai that generates electricity to federal capital territory and other 11 states. Ndokwa Nation Contributes immensely of over 31.5 per cent to the Nation’s Economy”‘ they added. The Nigeria Senate, they believe, “should demonstrate capacity not sectionalism of stalling justice or what rightfully belongs to Ndokwa people being jeopardised by deputy Senate President simply because he’s from Orogun.” “That we the Ndokwa youths will not and will never fold our hands and watch a power drunk man maneuver the Ndokwa people.” Among the fifteen signatories are, Comrade Nzete Anslem, the president of the group and Comrade Lucky Oyia, the deputy president.