Nigerian governors from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari over a job well done in his handling of the affairs of the country. They have praised him for his handling of security issues and the economy, noting in particular, the success recorded in pulling the country out of the 2016 economic recession as well as the ongoing management of the COVID-19 pandemic. The governors, who were present at Tuesday’s Virtual interaction with the governors of the APC-controlled States, praised him for his handling of security issues and the economy, noting in particular, the success recorded in pulling the country out of the 2016 economic recession as well as the ongoing management of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are proud of you”, the governors told President Buhari. READ ALSO: We Must Save APC From Self-Destruction – Buhari President Buhari, who also spoke at the meeting with the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, in attendance, commended members of the Mai Mala Buni-led All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Committee for the work they are doing in repositioning the governing party. The suspension of the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC in June led to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party selecting the Yobe State governor and others as the Chairman and members of the Caretaker Committee as well as of the extraordinary National Convention Committee respectively. The President told them at the meeting that he was pleased with the work that the Caretaker Committee has been doing, according to a statement signed by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President Media and Publicity on Tuesday. READ ALSO: Buhari Dissolves APC NWC As Yobe Governor Heads Caretaker Committee “I am pleased with the Chairman and the work of the committee. He is highly mobile in the efforts to coordinate and strengthen the party. I am happy with his personal efforts”, Buhari said. He also appreciated the efforts of the APC Governors following the successful conduct of the party primaries in Edo and Ondo states, adding that, “I am happy that they knew their responsibilities as Governors and had identified the right priorities.” The Federal Government has declared Thursday 30 and Friday 31 July, 2020 as Public Holidays to mark this year’s Eid-el-Kabir Celebration. This announcement was made by the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, in a statement signed by Georgina Ehuriah, the ministry of interior permanent secretary, on Tuesday. In the statement shared via the ministry’s official twitter handle, Aregbesola called on the Muslims to continue to imbibe the spirit of love, peace, kindness and sacrifice, as exemplified by Prophet Muhammad and to also use the period to pray for peace, unity, prosperity and the stability of the country especially as the world is witnessing global health challenges caused by Covid-19 pandemic. Wishing all Muslims a happy Eid –el- Kabir Celebration, Aregbosola said the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari was fully committed to battling the scourge with the cooperation of all Nigerians. He also stressed that government would continue to foster peaceful coexistence, national cohesion and stability in its march towards actualizing the full potentials of the country. The Minister advised Nigerians to take responsibility against the spread of COVID-19 and also to stay safe by observing physical and social distancing, personal and respiratory hygiene, as well as other regulations issued by relevant authorities.