Markets in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) will begin daily operation for the first time since the lockdown imposed on the city four months ago. The markets had been operating three times a week before the approval by Muhammad Musa Bello, the FCT minister. This was contained in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the minister, Anthony Ogunleye, on Wednesday The minister gave the approval when he chaired a virtual meeting between members of the FCT COVID-19 Response Team, senior members of the Administration and members of the Coalition of FCT Market Chairmen and Secretaries led by its Chairman Mr. Raphael Okorie. READ ALSO: COVID 19: Markets In FCT To Open Only Three Times A Week “Agreement reached at the meeting include measures to de-congest the markets in the FCT and further check the spread of COVID-19, while market operations have been extended from three days a week to all 7 days in the week from 7:00 am to 6:00 pm effective from Thursday, 30th July 2020 The Abuja Market Management Limited and various market associations will continue to carry out sensitisation activities to enlighten market users on COVID-19 and the necessity of obeying all extant health and safety protocols. Access to the markets and operations within the markets will only be permitted with the wearing of facial coverings and adherence to all extant health and safety guidelines inclusive of hand washing and maintenance of physical distancing”, the statement added. However, failure by the Coalition of FCT Market Chairmen and Secretaries to fully implement these guidelines, the FCTA said it would be compelled to withdraw the extension. Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has urged Lagosians to “calm down”, celebrate Sallah with moderation and observe prescribed protocols towards defeating the deadly coronavirus Borrowing words from the trending video of a boy who was seen begging his mother to “calm down” and not punish him for picking what was not given to him, Sanwo-Olu in his sallah message shared via his twitter handle on Wednesday, urged Lagosians to celebrate with moderation and observe prescribed protocols towards defeating the deadly coronavirus He said, “I saw a video of a charming young boy online asking his mom to ‘calm down’ as she was set to punish him for a misdemeanour. “I was moved by his sobriety, which reflected in his promise of “last chance”, when confronted with the fact that he is a regular offender. “The exchange was indeed funny, but it depicted the efforts parents put into moulding children into responsible adults. “I want to assume that his mom indeed calmed down because the appeal was moving enough to make anyone change their mind. “Interestingly, the video inspired this special message to the good people of Lagos State because of the deeper meaning it conveys. “Fellow Lagosians, we need to ‘calm down’ as we enjoy the coming holiday and festivity. Sanwo-Olu, who said he would love to meet the young boy in the trending video, asked every Lagosian should ‘calm down’ and not get carried away by the excitement of the moment. “It is a commemoration of Prophet Ibrahim’s heart of sacrifice and faith in Allah. “We need to emulate and demonstrate his sense of self- restraint at this time the world is combating the scourge of COVID-19. “We need to be moderate in our celebration and observe prescribed protocols towards defeating the deadly coronavirus. The world needs the responsibility and commitment of its people to oust coronavirus. “Like the rest of the world, we are still in the middle of a pandemic and need to remain extremely careful to keep the gains of the  sacrifices we have all made in the past months. “As an aside, I would like to meet the young boy since we both now have exclusive right to the phrasal verb ‘calm down’, he said.