The Abuja World Trade Centre located at the Central Business District (CBD) of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) went up in flames on Monday. The World Trade Centre, apparently the tallest building in the capital city located opposite Churchgate in the CBD Area could be seen on flames. While the cause of the fire outbreak is yet to be known, men of the Federal Fire Service have been deployed to the scene to combat the fire. Reacting to a twitter user who reported the incident to the Federal Fire Service, it said their men were already at the scene working to bring the situation under control. “Our Men are already at the scene. Thank you for the information.”, the Federal Fire Service said. A former acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Interim Management Committee, Joi Nunieh, speaking on Arise News on Monday said she was sexually harassed by the Minister of Niger Delta, Godswil Akpabio for which earned him a slap. Nunieh had last week also accused Akpabio of engineering her removal at the head of the NDDC for not agreeing to his shady ways for managing the Commission. Though she said that what transpired between them did not necessarily constitute attempted rape, Nunieh noted Akpabio was always scheduling meetings with her at his guest house or in hotels. She said, “When Akpabio saw that I cannot bring out the money, he now tried Plan B, a case of insubordination. Why did he not tell Mr President that I slapped him? Why did he not tell Nigerians that I slapped him? “Why did he take me to a guest house in Apo? Why did he not tell Nigerians what insubordination is all about? “Why did I stop to meet him? He told the Senate committee that I refused to meet him to have meeting. Why didn’t we have our meetings in his office? I told Mr. Akpabio that I will not go to any meeting outside his office. She said,“The last time he came to Port Harcourt, I did not go to Le’Meriden to meet him. I am the only Ogoni woman, the only Nigerian woman to slap his face. I slapped him because of his Plan B. “He thought since he couldn’t get me to release the money, he thought that Plan B if he could could come on me, he didn’t know that I am a Port Harcourt girl.” In the course of he interview on Arise, she said, “Harassment sounds better not rape. Yes, I am accusing him. Akpabio is most interested in my love life. Did he want to be my seventh husband? “That’s why Akpabio told the world that I am temperamental. You know why Akpabio will tell the world that I may temperamental? Because of that incident that I slapped him.”