Former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has for the second time dumped the People’s Democratic Party in favour of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He first left the PDP back in 2014 ahead of the general elections after which he was elected Speaker. Dogara would later rejoin the PDP in the lead up to the 2019 elections. Yobe governor, Mai Mala Buni, who doubles as the chairman of APC’s caretaker committee on Friday presented Dogara to President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House and later informed the press of the latest change in  party by the former speaker. Buki said, “We paid a courtesy call on the president in continuation of our effort to rebuild the party. We are here to see Mr. President and brief him on the development.” According to him, “The former speaker is a member of the APC. He is back because the reason he left the APC is no more there.” The Yobe governor said the president was happy with the development, adding that, “we are rebuilding the party and these are the steps we are taking towards rebuilding the party.” He said, “We will do justice to all our members and that’s what will bring peace and that is why will guarantee peaceful coexistence, that is what will bring the consolidation of the party, the rebuilding of the party. Without doing justice, you cannot achieve that and we are sure of doing justice to all our members. “We are rebuilding the party to outlive all of us. It’s not only about specific time or period, its not about election, its not about electioneering. It is about building a party.” The Nigerian major opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) has demanded the resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari over cases of corruption in federal agencies. National chairman of the opposition party, Prince Uche Secondus, made the call in an ongoing media parley in Abuja. He cited ongoing corruption investigations of the NDDC, MIC, NEDC, NSITF, EFCC, and others, stating that Nigeria, under Buhari’s watch, was on a ventilator gasping for breath. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD Secondus said corruption had become a way of life among Nigerians while  President Buhari played the ostrich. He accused President Buhari of abandoning his promise to fight corruption during electioneering campaigns in 2015 and 2019. There have several allegations of massive corruption against several federal government agencies. The latest is the Niger Delta Development Commission, which management is undergoing a probe over alleged mismanagement of N81bn Naira.