The German government has pledged to donate the sum of 3bn euros to International Monetary Fund (IMF) to support poverty reduction and growth trust. Wolfgang Schmidt, a State Secretary at Germany Finance Ministry, said a tweet on Saturday that this decision was reached at a virtual meeting of the G20. READ ALSO: COVID-19: IMF Approves Debt Relief For 25 Countries “At today’s virtual meeting of the @g20org FM&CBG, @OlafScholz announced: Germany will contribute 3bn Euro to @IMFNews’s Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust”, Schmidt tweeted. Reacting to this in a tweet, IMF managing director, Kristalina Georgieva, appreciated German government She said Germany’s donation would help replenish resources to support low income member countries. She also called on other donors to act likewise and contribute for to the fund. “I am very thankful to #Germany for the generous pledge to help the IMF replenish our concessional resources to support more low-income member countries. I call on other donors for additional contributions”, Georgieva tweeted. Governor Nasir el-rufai of Kaduna State on Saturday announced that public servants in the state would resume work on July 20. El-rufai, who disclosed this via his Kaduna State government’s Twitter page on Saturday, said resumption would be in strict compliance to COVID-19 safety protocols. He said, “Public servants in Kaduna State will resume on Monday, 20 July 2020, with strict compliance to Covid-19 protocols. The governor said offices would open by 9am and close by 3pm, adding that the public servants on grade level 14 would to work three days in a week, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays while grade level 7-13 officers would work only on Tuesdays and Thursdays. READ ALSO: EL-Rufai Lifts Kaduna Lockdown, Reopens Worship Places “Grade Levels 14 and above will be in their offices Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while Grade Level 7 to 13 will resume on Tuesdays and Thursdays, from 9am-3pm. “Chief executives of MDAs may declare the services of any of their officers as essential and direct their office days and working hours accordingly”, el-rufai said. READ ALSO: Guidelines For Re-Opening Kaduna State Out Soon – Nasir el-Rufai This development is coming after the governor announced gradual easing of COVID-19 lockdown in Kaduna State last month. So far, Kaduna State has recorded 1,099 cases of COVID-19, 829 COVID-19 patients have been treated and discharged, while 12 deaths have been record as a result of COVID-19.