The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has inaugurated two inter-agency committees with the mandate to review, collate, commission and communicate in local languages Information and Communication Technology (ICT) projects implemented for Nigerians under President Muhammadu Buhari. The two ministerial committees which are Completed Projects Review Committee and Committee on Media Engagement in Local Languages are chaired by Ayuba Shuaibu, Executive Secretary, Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF) and Dr. Usman Gambo Abdullahi, Director, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) respectively. Present at the inauguration were the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, Kasifu Abdullah, Director General, NITDA; and Dr. Abimbola Alale, Managing Director, NIGCOMSAT. Membership of the committees are drawn from all the five agencies supervised by the Ministry including NCC, NITDA, Galaxy Backbone, NIGCOMSAT and NIPOST. Pantami stated that while the Ministry and the agencies had successfully complemented a number of projects across the geo-political zones in the country which have great benefits to Nigerians, the existence of these projects have not been sufficiently communicated to the public in our local languages. Pantami said during the inauguration that “there has not been so much awareness creation on the presence of these projects among Nigerians who are the ultimate beneficiaries.” He said the responsibility of the Ministerial Committee on Completed Projects Review and Commissioning was to collate all the laudable  projects and then organise a virtual commissioning in order to bring them to the consciousness of Nigerians. On the responsibility of the Ministerial Committee Media Engagement in Nigerian Languages, Pantami said the committee would work to ensure awareness creation about the projects, their locations and benefits to Nigerians using local languages such as Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba and Fulfude spoken in the zone where the projects are sited. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday gave an update on COVID-19 pandemic showing Lagos and Edo with highest number of new cases, 200 and 190 respectively. With 561 new cases, Nigeria now has a total 25,694. Edo State has become the sixth state to record more than 1,000 cases as 1105 cases have been confirmed in the state. Lagos State has the most confirmed cases with 10,510 and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) which reported 52 new cases has 1,870 confirmed cases. Oyo State with eight new cases has a total of 1,380 confirmed cases. Kano has five new cases and now has 1,216 confirmed cases. Rivers, which Edo just overtook with more cases has 1,056 confirmed cases. Kaduna and FCT, according to the NCDC update had 52 new cases each. Niger had 32, Ogun had 19, Ondo had 16 and Imo had 14. In Plateau State 11 new cases were reported. Abia and Oyo had eight new cases each, Bayelsa had seven, Katsina had six, while Bauchi, Osun and Kebbi had three each. Borno had two and Jigawa had one. 9,746  patients have recovered and discharged while the death toll from COVID-19 stands at 590.