The Nigerian major opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) has demanded the resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari over cases of corruption in federal agencies. National chairman of the opposition party, Prince Uche Secondus, made the call in an ongoing media parley in Abuja. He cited ongoing corruption investigations of the NDDC, MIC, NEDC, NSITF, EFCC, and others, stating that Nigeria, under Buhari’s watch, was on a ventilator gasping for breath. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD Secondus said corruption had become a way of life among Nigerians while  President Buhari played the ostrich. He accused President Buhari of abandoning his promise to fight corruption during electioneering campaigns in 2015 and 2019. There have several allegations of massive corruption against several federal government agencies. The latest is the Niger Delta Development Commission, which management is undergoing a probe over alleged mismanagement of N81bn Naira. Lagos State government has disclosed that it could spend up to N1m daily on each patient with severe Coronavirus symptoms. Akin Abayomi, Lagos State commissioner for health, disclosed this on Thursday in a press briefing on the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. When asked on the cost of managing COVID-19 patients during the briefing, Abayomi said the cost of managing each patients varied and depended on their conditions. READ ALSO: As COVID-19 Deaths Hit 709, Lagos Reports New High Of 224 Single Day Cases The commissioner said the state spent the sum of N100,000 daily on patients with mild symptoms, while each of those with severe conditions could cost the state up to N1m daily. “To treat mild to moderate case patients in our Isolation centre is somewhere in the region of N100, 000 per day. “This gives you an idea on the amount of money the government is spending on COVID-19 isolation facilities and COVID-19 care in the state. “If you require high care or intensive care, that amount can go up from anything from N500, 000 to even a million naira per day,” Abayomi said. READ ALSO: Lagos Lawmaker, Tunde Braimoh Is Dead The cost of care for each patient include whether the patient needs ventilation, oxygen, dialysis, intravenous antibiotics and others,” Abayomi added. “Every case is different, so it is very difficult to calculate exactly how much a patient in high care or intensive care would cost.” Lagos has recorded 14,009 cases of Coronavirus, 192 deaths, while 2075 have been treated and discharged.