Tributes have continued to pour in following the demise of Nigeria’s first and only female combat helicopter pilot, who died on Tuesday. Arotile, who hails from Iffe in Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State, died in an auto-crash at NAF Base Kaduna on Tuesday. The Nigerian First Lady, Aisha Buhari, on Wednesday sent her condolence message to Arotile’s family members via her twitter handle on Wednesday, describing the deceased as a representative Nigerian woman, youth and what they could achieve. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s First And Only Female Combat Helicopter Pilot Dies In Auto-crash She said, “It’s with a heavy heart that I received the news of the demise of Flying Officer Tolulope Arotile, the first female Nigerian Airforce Combat Helicopter Pilot. “I condole with the family of Flying Officer Arotile, the Nigerian Airforce and the country over this irreparable loss. The deceased was an intelligent young woman, a huge potential, a representative of both Nigerian women and youth, and what they could achieve.” Likewise, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the National Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) also took to his twitter handle on Wednesday commiserate with the Nigerian Airforce and the Arotile’s family over the loss. READ ALSO: President Buhari Mourns Tolulope Arotile “My sincere condolences to the family, friends and Nigerian Air Force colleagues of Flying Officer, Tolulope Arotile. “Ms. Arotile was a trail blazer in every sense and her sudden passing is a tragic and painful loss for all patriotic Nigerians. May her virtuous soul rest peacefully in the bosom of Allah, Tinubu tweeted. Speaker of the House of Representative, Femi Gbajabiamila on his part expressed shock over Arotile’s demise. He said, “I received with great shock the death of our country’s first female combat pilot, Tolulope Arotile, I saw her months ago display her talent to the admiration of many of us at a @NigAirForce event. Indeed we have lost a great talent! My condolences to the Arotile family and N.A.F”. Embattled acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, who was suspended from office last week has been released from detention. Magu was arrested on July 6 and has been in detention since then answering questions bordering on corruption and insubordination from a presidential panel led by Justice Ayo Salami. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Buhari Suspends EFCC Boss, Ibrahim Magu The arrest came after Abubakar Malami, the Attorney General of the Federation wrote a memo to President Muhammadu Buhari accusing Magu of several acts of corruption. The presidential probe has centred around how the Commission has managed recovered assets. READ ALSO: Presidency Breaks Silence On Magu’s Suspension, Says No Sacred Cows In Anti-Corruption War He has appeared before the panel every day since July 6 and after his suspension last week, Mohammaded Umar, a director of operations at the EFCC, was named acting chairman of the commission. The probe has led to the questioning of several of his top aides and directors at the Commission, some of whom are now reported to have also been suspended.