The Federal Government has announced that all official meetings must be conducted virtually and all unnecessary travels for meetings by government officials are suspended. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, made this known at the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 Briefing on Monday. READ ALSO: Buhari Holds Second Virtual FEC Meeting, Approves Projects Worth Billions Of Naira “Government meetings/Board meetings should be conducted virtually until further notice, all unnecessary travels for meetings by government officials should be suspended. “All government offices shall continue to hold virtual meetings in their offices especially where participants exceed four persons and suspend all unnecessary travels for meetings”, he said Mustapha, who chairs the PTF on COVID-19, also warned corporate organisations not to take undue advantage of resumption of flights to travel for physical meetings. READ ALSO: Giadom Convenes Virtual APC NEC Meeting “For corporate organisations, board members, the reopening of the domestic flights should not be misconstrued. The PTF strongly encourages virtual meetings as well,” he said. Mustapha also disclosed that Germany and Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) had donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) worth $8m to Nigeria over the weekend. The minister of aviation, Hadi Sirika, has announced a review in the length of time passengers for local travels are expected to be at the airport before their flights. The Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) had earlier directed that passengers must arrive at the airports three hours before their flights in order to have enough time to follow the COVID-19 guidelines for safe operations. READ ALSO: Passengers To Arrive Airport Three Hours Before Flight – FAAN However, the minister of aviation in a tweet on Monday announced that the decision had been reviewed and that  passengers should now arrive airport one and a half hours to their flight. READ ALSO: Domestic Flights To Resume July 8 “My colleagues and I have reviewed passenger facilitation at our airports, consequently I am happy to announce that, henceforth travelers are to arrive one hour and a half before their departure time for domestic flights. The minister also said passengers should endeavour to check in online before coming to the airports for their flights. Domestic flights resumed operation in the country on July 8, due to COVID-19 pandemic disruption that led to closure of airports in the country for three months.