President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday urged the National Assembly, law enforcement agencies and audit firms currently probing into allegations of corruption in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to work with urgency and sense of purpose, saying his administration is determined to get to the root problem undermining the development of the Niger Delta. Allegations of massive corruption in the NDDC have come to the fore in the past week as lawmakers probe into how N40bn was recklessly squandered in the Commission between January and March, 2020. Buhari, in a series of tweets on Thursday, said his government was “determined to get to the root of the problem undermining the development of the Niger Delta, in spite of the enormous national resources dedicated to this annually. This administration remains committed to bringing rapid, even and sustainable development to the region.” READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD The president urged all investigating agencies and auditing firms working with the National Assembly to probe into allegations of corruption in NDDC to work with urgency and sense of purpose, adding  that he is “determined to entrench transparency and accountability applies not only to the NDDC, but also to all other institutions of the Federal Government. We will not relent.” “All investigating agencies and auditing firms currently working collaboratively with National Assembly Committees to audit and reposition the NDDC must act with urgency and a sense of purpose, and ensure that I am kept informed of any and all actions being taken. READ ALSO: ‘I slapped Akpabio Because He Was Sexually Harassing Me,’ Ex NDDC MD, Nunieh Says “In line with this, I have made it clear to the National Assembly and our investigating and law enforcement agencies to pursue better coordination in their work, so that the shared goal of ensuring sanity, transparency and accountability of dedicated funds can be achieved,” Buhari said. A former acting managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Joy Nunieh, has narrated how she was rescued by River State governor, Nyesom Wike, from policemen who attempted breaking into her home to arrest on Thursday. Speaking on the incident with journalists on Thursday, Nunieh, who accused Akpabio of harassing her and also asking her to take an oath, said the attempt to arrest her had to do with her appearance before the House of Representative committee scheduled for the same day in Abuja, She added that the police were coming for while the man who stole the money was left alone. “I was supposed to be going to Abuja to today to do my submission before the House of Representatives committee. I’m sure it is about that. Meanwhile, the man that harassed me, is at home. The man who stole the money is at home. The man who stole government’s file is at home. The man who said I should go and take an oath is at home”, she said. READ ALSO: ‘I slapped Akpabio Because He Was Sexually Harassing Me,’ Ex NDDC MD, Nunieh Says Narrating how Wike came to her rescue, Nunieh said policemen who came to her house at around 4.am tried to break into her house to arrest her in the early hours of Thursday. She said, “Early this morning around 4.am I heard people were at my gate. I made some calls, I tried to reach the governor because he had told that if I saw any strange movement I should alert him since I issued a statement. “So I tried to reach him, his phones were off and I called some people are they said they might not be real policemen. They said they came to take me away, I said for what? Do they have a warrant of arrest? They said no warrant of arrest. About 6.am they broke the gate. “Later Senator Magnus Abe now called me that he had reached the commissioner of police who said he didn’t know anything about it. So the CP called me, I sent my address he came. They told me the CP was down stairs but he wasn’t there. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD “I think it was the DCP. So I opened the door, they wanted to grab me, I now pushed back the door, locked it and went back upstairs. I got through to my governor. They tried to break my house back door, it’s a security door. They kept hitting it for over one hour they couldn’t get access. “So my governor came as asked them of warrant of arrest and why couldn’t they invite me to the police that I would have honoured their invitation. Instead of going to take a woman like a criminal. So the governor took me in his car. Here I am a refugee in the government house.” Nunieh had accused the Minister of Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio, of corruption when she first appeared before lawmakers probing into how the sum of N40bn was recklessly squandered between January and March 2020 in the Commission. Akpabio has however denied all the allegations, saying that Nunieh is temperamental.