Leader of the Yoruba sociocultural group Afenifere, Pa Ayo Fasanmi has died at the age of 94. His death was announced by his son, Folabi Fasanmi, in a statement on Thursday. Fasanmi in 1978 contested for the governorship ticket of the Unity Party of Nigeria but lost out to another candidate. The statement read, “With great gratitude to the  Almighty God for a life well spent, we wish to announce the demise of our father, Senator Ayo Fasanmi at the ripe age of 94 years. “The Second Republic Senator who until his death was a leader of the Yoruba Socio Cultural Group, Egbe Afenifere (ILOSIWAJU YORUBA) and a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, passed on peacefully in Osogbo on Wednesday night.” According to the statement, “The burial arrangement will be announced by his immediate family in conjunction with his political associates and the South West Governors.” The senator representing Kogi State West, Smart Adeyemi, has called for amputation or life imprisonment for corrupt officials, saying Sharia or Mosaic law is the way to tackle corruption in the country. In a video of his contribution to debate on allegations of corruption in Niger Delta Commission (NDDC) on the house floor, shared on his twitter page on Thursday, Adeyemi condemn the mismanage of the N81billion in Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) with nothing to show for it. He said, “Mr. President, in the bible there is what we call the Mosaic law, which in the Quran they call Sharia law. The level of corruption in the country today is beyond the laws that we have”. Adeyemi said corruption in the country had gone beyond what any of the existing substantive laws can tackle, adding that sharia law or Mosaic law application is the solution to corruption. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD “We have 14 substantive parliamentary laws against corruption, anti corruption was the mantra of our government and today we are fight corruption but corruption is fighting. “What is the solution, Mr. President. We have to introduce either sharia law or Mosaic law, amputation, life imprisonment. That is the solution to corruption in Nigeria. “We have large army of youth today, they have no jobs, we are not safe, our families are not safe. And some people are giving the opportunity of managing a zone and look at what they are doing? N3.2 billion on medicals, you cannot explained this Mr. President. READ ALSO: NDDC Probe: Drama As MD Slumps During Questioning “This is terrible. I’m happy that people behind this are from Niger Delta. There are no northerners or people from south west there. So you will expect them to be extremely committed to the welfare of their people. N81billion n six months and there is nothing to show for it”, Adeyemi said. Allegations of corruption in the NDDC have come to the fore in the past weeks as lawmakers probe into financial recklessness in the agency.