The President of African Bank of Development (AfDB) Akinwumi Adesina, has reiterated his dedication to Africa’s development following an independent panel that cleared him of corruption allegations. Adesina had been accused of poor governance, impunity, personal enrichment and favouritism in a 15-page report by a whistleblower. However, an independent panel of experts, headed by a former Irish president Mary Robinson, on Tuesday cleared him of all corruption allegations. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s Adesina Cleared Of Wrong Doing At AfDB This development got President Muhammadu Buhari congratulate Adesina in a tweet, saying the outcome of the independent panel “further validates Adesina’s competence and integrity to lead the African Development Bank. Reacting to president Buhari’s tweet on Wednesday, Adesina, in a tweet, appreciated the president for his support and pledged his dedication to Africa’s accelerated development. He said, “Thank you very much Your Excellency President Buhari @MBuhari for your kind words, good wishes, counsel and extraordinary support. I am very humbled and grateful. I am totally dedicated to Africa’s accelerated development, and to this I recommit myself.” READ ALSO: ‘I Will Continue To Support You,’ Buhari Assures Adesina, AfDB President Following his vindication by an Independent Review Panel, Adesina is set for re-election next month as president of the African Development Bank (AfDB). The election ought to have held in May but was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The former chairman of the Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrashed Maina, has been released from Kuje Correctional Centre according to his lawyer, Adeola Adedipe. For several months, he struggled to meet the bail conditions that were set for him by the Federal High Court, Abuj. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had arraigned Maina before Okon Abang, a judge of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on October 25, 2019. Accused of mismanaging billions of naira in pension funds, Maina was arraigned alongside Faisal, his son, and firm, Common Input Property and Investment Ltd. Adedipe confirmed to the News Agency of Nigeria that his client was released on Monday evening after completing the necessary documents for his bail. Adedipe said his client ought to have been released on July 24 but it was delayed due to administrative procedures. “It was already late last week Friday so they now have a new timeline shifted at 6 O’clock. We went there and everything was done,” he said. READ ALSO: Why I met Maina And What Buhari Knew – Malami On why Maina had been kept in detention after Abang further varied his bail conditions on June 29, the lawyer said: “It was also administrative. There were lapses here and there; transmission of processes from one department of government to another. Adedipe expressed delight over his client’s release, saying it would not only afford him the opportunity to get adequate medical attention but also enable him prepare for trial. “We can only thank God and this is good for us because we will now have time to prepare for his defence; we will now have good conferencing on the matter,” he said. “We will have a better perspective of what the case is all about. And this will also allow him to treat himself you know he has been very ill in order to stand the trial.” Ali Ndume, the chairman, senate committee on army, had, in a statement on June 24, admitted standing as surety for Maina. He said it took him six months of “painful consideration” to agree to be a surety for Maina, and that it was part of the cross he had to carry as Maina’s elected senator. Abang had varied Miana’s bail conditions, following his inability to meet the terms granted to him on November 26, 2019. Abang reduced Maina’s bail condition from N1bn to N500m with a surety in the like sum who must be a serving senator as opposed to the earlier order of producing two serving senators. The judge ruled that the surety, who should not have a criminal case pending in any court, must have a landed property fully developed in Maitama, Asokoro, Wuse II, Katampe or central business district of Abuja, with certificate of occupancy attached as evidence. Maina had been unable to get a senator as surety until Ndume agreed to do so. Abang, who had, on June 29, considered the arguments of parties, said it was within the court’s jurisdiction to either grant bail by vacating the existing conditions or grant new conditions. Maina was charged with 12 counts bordering on money laundering but he pleaded not guilty to all the charges.