The Chairman/CEO of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) Abike Dabiri-Erewa has appealed to the authorities of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to pay the allowances of stranded Nigerian students abroad, who are on NDDC scholarship scheme. Dabiri-Erewa said many of students on NDDC scholarship abroad were now stranded and have turned beggars in the Diaspora over nonpayment of their allowances. She made this plea in a statement signed by Gabriel Odu Media, Public Relations and Protocol Unit of the NIDCOM Abuja, circulated via the agency’s twitter account. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD Drawing attention to the plight of the students and urging the NDDC who are directly responsible for the Students’ scholarships to pay, Dabiri-Erewa said it had become urgent as deadline for paying fees for some of the students had elapsed and many of them have turned to begging to survive due to non payment of their allowances by NDDC. “As a matter of urgency intervene by promptly paying the allowances, tuition and other incentives of students on their scholarship scheme, to guarantee their stay and continue their education in the United Kingdom. “At the moment there have been persistent calls by the Students for urgent intervention. While deadline for payment of the fees of some of the students have expired or about to expire, non-payment of their allowances have turned many of them to virtually become beggars”, Dabiri-Erewa said. READ ALSO: NDDC Probe: Drama As MD Slumps During Questioning Allegations on corruption in the NDDC has led to House of Representatives committee to investigate the agency. Diversion of funds meant for students on NDDC scholarship into private pockets was part allegations raised on the floor of the house during the probe session. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday reported 624 new cases of COVID-19 in the country, with eight new deaths and 561 patients discharged. The total number of confirmed cases now stands at 41,804, while 18,764 have been discharged from hospital and 868 deaths recorded. Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 212, followed by Oyo State, which reported 69. Niger State reported a new high of 49 cases in a single day, while Kano and Osun states each reported 37 new cases. The FCT had 35 new cases, Plateau had 34, Gombe had 33, Edo and Enugu had 28 each, while Ebonyi had 17. In Delta State there were 10 new cases, nine in Katsina State, eight in Ogun State, seven in Rivers State, five in Ondo State, four in Kaduna State and two in Nasarawa State.