The House of Representatives on Thursday was the venue of a minor diplomatic incident when the Lebanese Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Houssam Diab, walked out on members during a metting. Diab was there to honour an invitation from the House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Affairs but shortly after arriving he walked out of the meeting room because of the presence of the media. The meeting was called to address the mistreatment of Nigerians in Lebanon, particularly the case of Temitope Arowolo who is on trial for murder. The meeting that was to hold with the ambassador had in attendance the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Zubairu Dada and the Director-General of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, Julie Okah-Donli. Reacting to the walk-out, the Chairman of the House Diaspora Committee, Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, expressed shock that the ambassador would simply walk out on the committee. The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Acting Secretary of the Health and Human Services Secretariat, Dr. Mohammed Kawu has tested positive for COVID-19. The FCTA made this known in a statement on Thursday, urging Nigerians to take responsibility and stay safe because COVID-19 is real and can be fatal. READ ALSO: FCT Records 100 New Cases Of COVID-19 According to the statement, Kawu had told journalists at the Asokoro District Hospital on Wednesday, where he is currently receiving treatment that his journey to the Isolation Center began 12 days earlier when he experienced feverish conditions. READ ALSO: Cemetery Workers Who Buried Abba Kyari Isolated For Testing – FCTA That, the statement said, prompted him to take the COVID-19 test which turned out to be positive. The statement added, “Dr Kawu who is the equivalent to the commissioner said, “I want every Nigerians, like I’ve always told them in the media, that this thing is real and anybody can be infected, especially those of us that are on the frontline. The disease can be fatal and it is important that everyone follows all the extant guidelines of hand washing or sanitizing, maintain social distancing, wearing of facial covering and staying at home. “So, my appeal to everyone in the society is that we must all be part and parcel of this fight against the COVID-19. Everybody must take personal responsibility to ensure that he or she protects his or herself and his or her family,” The FCT has seven isolation and treatment centres across the Territory and six of them are public facilities while one is privately managed.