The Nigerian Senate on Tuesday passed a bill to protect students in tertiary institutions from sexual harassment. The Bill For An Act To Prevent And Redress Sexual Harassment Of Students In Tertiary Educational Institutions And For Matters Connected Therewith, 2020” was passed for third reading. It was sponsored by the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie-Omo Agege and 105 other senators. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, described the passage of the bill as a landmark legislation for the ninth Senate. Chairman of the Senate Committe on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Senator Bamidele Opeyemi, said passage of the bill would ensure that mutual consent is no longer a defence for sexual harassment cases in higher institutions. His committee had earlier considered the bill and recommended for its passage by the Committee of Whole. ASUU has been vehemently opposed to be bill arguing that it single out lecturers as perpetrators of sexual harassment. President Muhammad Buhari has written the Senate requesting the confirmation of the appointment of Professor Umar Dambatta the Executive Vice Chairman of the governor board of the Nigerian Communications Commission. The President who had earlier approved Danbatta’s reappointment for another term in June requested the confirmation of Danbatta in a letter addressed to the Senate. READ ALSO: President Buhari Reappoints Danbatta As NCC Boss President of the Senate Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan read Buhari’s letter requesting the conformation of Danabatta’s appointment during Tuesday plenary according to tweet updates from official handle of the Nigerian Senate. “President of the Senate Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan reads a letter from Mr President requesting for the Confirmation of appointment of Professor Umar Dambatta the Executive Vice Chairman of the governing board of the Nigerian Communications Commission, the tweet reads. Born in Danbatta Local Government, Kano State,  Prof. Danbatta obtained his BEng, MSc degrees from the Technical University of Wroclaw in Poland and his PhD from the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (UMIST) UK respectively.