The minister of aviation, Hadi Sirika, has announced a review in the length of time passengers for local travels are expected to be at the airport before their flights. The Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) had earlier directed that passengers must arrive at the airports three hours before their flights in order to have enough time to follow the COVID-19 guidelines for safe operations. READ ALSO: Passengers To Arrive Airport Three Hours Before Flight – FAAN However, the minister of aviation in a tweet on Monday announced that the decision had been reviewed and that  passengers should now arrive airport one and a half hours to their flight. READ ALSO: Domestic Flights To Resume July 8 “My colleagues and I have reviewed passenger facilitation at our airports, consequently I am happy to announce that, henceforth travelers are to arrive one hour and a half before their departure time for domestic flights. The minister also said passengers should endeavour to check in online before coming to the airports for their flights. Domestic flights resumed operation in the country on July 8, due to COVID-19 pandemic disruption that led to closure of airports in the country for three months. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has added maize to the list of items banned from being imported into the country. The CBN said in a circular on Monday that it would no longer process Forms M needed for the importation of maize into the country. READ ALSO: CBN Lowers Interest Rate To 12.5% This is part of efforts by the CBN to restart the economy devastated by the COVID-19 pandemic and protect local farmers. The CBN had in the past made similar efforts, denying access to foreign currencies for the importation of certain items, which has included rice, milk and other livestock and agricultural products. READ ALSO: CBN Asks Banks Not To Sack Workers The circular, signed by the CBN’s director of trade and exchange, O. S. Nnaji, directed all authorised dealers to submit the list of Forms M already registered for the importation of maize/corn using a designated format on or before the close of business on Wednesday, July 15, 2020.