The British High Commission has announced that it’s would resume visa application services in Nigeria on July 28. The Commission said it would commence visa application services at its Abuja, Ikeja and Victoria Island centres via its official Twitter account on Tuesday. “Visa Application Centres (VACs) are resuming services in Nigeria from 28 July”, the tweet read. READ ALSO: We’ll Soon Resume Visa Services In Nigeria – British High Commission The High Commission urged potential visa applicants to book appointment as it would attend to only those on appointment, adding that customer and staff safety from COVID-19 remained top priority. “You must have an appointment to visit a VAC and will not be admitted without one. For new applications, we aim to assess within our normal service standards, but there may be some delay. “Staff and customer safety remains our top priority with COVID-19 preventative measures in place. Our focus now is to deliver our services safely and effectively together”, the High Commission said. The presidency has said that the level and reach of the anti-corruption crusade so far reflected what the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) had left behind for President Muhammadu Buhari’s present administration. It added that President Buhari would not be deterred by baseless criticisms by the opposition in his determination to eradicate rampant, chronic corruption in the country. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Buhari Suspends EFCC Boss, Ibrahim Magu Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, made this known in a statement on Tuesday. READ ALSO: Presidency Breaks Silence On Magu’s Suspension, Says No Sacred Cows In Anti-Corruption War Shehu, who was fielding questions from State House correspondents on issues raised by the PDP since the beginning of the suspended acting EFCC Chairman, Ibrahim Magu’s interrogation, said corruption had become so normalised by the PDP that they had difficulty defining what is “corruption” and “theft”. “They had large number of cases they did not investigate and prosecute. The current administration is handling many of the cases that the PDP should have dealt with and the new ones as they arise,” he said. Shehu also cautioned the PDP to allow the process of investigation and prosecution to work instead of being preemptive about ongoing cases and unduly agitating the public. He also expressed hope that the Judiciary would deal with the cases swiftly and satisfactorily, in a manner that would deter other would-be offenders.