The Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, has asked Nigerians to report anyone demanding fees for COVID-19 test. Speaking during a briefing by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Monday, Ehanire said COVID-19 test was free. “I wish to remind everyone that government-run testing for COVID-19 is free. Please report anyone who demands payment for necessary action,” he said. Ehanire warned Nigerians against using unaccredited COVID-19 facilities, saying they were illegal and risky to use. He said, “I will also remind everyone that COVID-19 treatment facilities which are not accredited by the responsible state or the FCT accreditation committees are illegal and risky.” According to Ehanire, as of July 6, Nigeria has recorded a total of 28,711 confirmed COVID-19 cases in the country out of 152,952 tests conducted. He further explained that 11,665 people had been treated successfully and discharged, while the death toll from the pandemic is now 645. The Nigerian government on Monday announced the commencement date for the West African Examination Council (WAEC) examination for 2020. The federal government had postponed WAEC and NECO indefinitely in April due to COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at the daily Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja on Monday, Emeka Nwajiuba, Minister of State for Education, said this year’s WAEC examinations would commence on August 4. Urging parents to take note of the exam date, the minister said the examination would hold from August 4th to September 5th 2020. “WAEC will commence from the 4th of August to the 5th of September. Parents please take note”, he said. Nwajiuba added that other exams would also hold after WAEC had been concluded. He said, “As soon as we concluded WAEC, we will take NABTEB and NECO”. READ ALSO: FG To Reopen Schools For Final Year Students, Lifts Ban On Interstate Travel This development is coming after the federal government had approved the reopening of schools strictly for final year students in primary and secondary schools.