The Nigerian First lady, Aisha Buhari has raised the alarm over increased child malnutrition in Nigeria to due to coronavirus pandemic and restriction of movement in a bid to combat the pandemic. In a video shared on her twitter page on Friday, Mrs. Buhari said though  malnutrition in children had been an issue before now the pandemic has led to significant increase in the number of acutely malnourished children in Nigeria. She said, “Malnutrition has been a cause of death and underdevelopment among children under five in Nigeria even before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. With the emergence of the pandemic, however, and the subsequent restriction of movement, the situation has worsened resulting in the shortage of food supply. “This in turn has led to a significant increase in the number of acutely malnourished children which requires urgent attention and collective action.” Mrs. Buhari further requested humanitarian support, private sector intervention and donations by well meaning Nigerians to combat malnutrition among children between age zero to five. “I strongly believe that making provisions for this group of children is a step towards upholding their rights to good nutrition and their right to life”, she said. According to UNICEF, “An estimated 2 million children in Nigeria suffer from severe acute malnutrition (SAM), but only two out of every 10 children affected is currently reached with treatment. Seven percent of women of childbearing age also suffer from acute malnutrition.” Human rights activists and legal advocate, Femi Falana, has denied been involved in a new political party, the National Consultative Front (NCF) floated by some notable Nigerians. He however also hinted plans to launch his own political platform saying, “At the appropriate time, we shall come before Nigerians to present the new platform which would be predicated upon pro-masses oriented anti-poverty programme, and hopefully, the founders of the new intiative will be proud not to be left out.” Names that have been linked to the party include Oby Ezekwesili,  Prof. Pat Utomi and  Obaidal Mailafia. Other like Olisa Agbakoba, like Falana have denied been part of the political party. While commending all efforts aimed at creating an alternative platform, Falana said in a statement that he also recognised the fact that some of the promoters of the NCF were people motivated by the common good. Many of them, he said, had made profound sacrifices to make Nigeria a better place to live. He added, “In this light I commend what appears to be the genuine motive of the organisers of the National Consultative Forum. “However, I observe that my name has been mentioned as one of the pillars behind this initiative. While I appreciate the concern of the leadership of the new group to enlist my support, I wish to say that at no time have I been consulted neither did I attend the meeting where the forum was launched.” He said, “I appreciate the almost desperate situation progressive Nigerians find themselves in the bid to save Nigeria from what looks like an imminent shipwreck. This might  have informed the haste with which many honest and dedicated hands find themselves. “This clarification should not be conceived as opposition to all honest efforts designed to rescue Nigeria from the claws of abject poverty and increasing loss of hope. I wish to add that there are several efforts I have been involved lately and I believe there is a growing perspective that all efforts should be harmonised for maximum impact.”