A former president, Goodluck Johnathan, on Thursday wrote a tribute in memory of Nigeria’s first and only female combat helicopter pilot, who died last week. Arotile, who hails from Iffe in Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State, died in an auto-crash at NAF Base Kaduna on Tuesday last week. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s First And Only Female Combat Helicopter Pilot Dies In Auto-crash In a tribute shared via his twitter page, Jonathan sent out condolences to the family of the late pilot, describing Arotile as a brave patriot. “My heart goes out to the family and colleagues of late flying officer, Tolulope Arotile. She was a brave patriot who pushed her self beyond limits to demonstrate her uncommon love for our dear nation”, he wrote. Jonathan said Arotile was a product of his administration policy that gave equal opportunities to all men and women of the armed forces, adding that it felt sad to see her die at her prime. READ ALSO: President Buhari Mourns Tolulope Arotile He said, “In the process, she made us all proud. In 2011 when my administration introduced females into the Nigeria Defence Academy to train as combatants, for the first time, it was to give equal opportunities to all men and women of the armed forces and encourage highly driven female officers like Tolulope to excel in her chosen career, irrespective of their gender. I feel sad that such a young gallant officer would die at the prime of her life”. Jonathan added that Arotile’s legacy will serve as inspiration for girl child in Nigeria. “I am however encouraged by the fact that she stood out as a pleasing fulfilment of our dream of an all-embracing Nigeria armed forces devoid of discrimination. READ ALSO: Aisha Buhari, Tinubu And Gbajabiamila Mourn Tolulope Arotile “By dedicating her young life to protect and defend Nigeria’s strength, honour and unity, her memory and legacy will continue to serve as a great inspiration to our youth especially our girls. May God grant her soul eternal rest”, he said. The Senate Committee investigating the mismanagement of public funds in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has recommended the dissolution of the agency’s Interim Management Committee (IMC). Senator Olubunmi Adetukunmbi who made the recommendation to the Senate Plenary said that the NDDC had spent N1.334trn in five years. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD The senator said the NDDC management was spending based on cash accounting and not on the budget. He said mode of “running the accounting system” by the IMC was an aberration to the act of establishing the agency. He also said the management spent N81.5 bn in three months, which was not spent on development-oriented infrastructure in line with the mandate of the NDDC.