The management of Federal Aviation Authority of Nigeria has described the refusal of former governor of Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari, as an irresponsible act that endangers the lives of other travellers. In a statement shared on its official twitter page on Wednesday, the management of FAAN said Yari blatantly violated the Public Health procedures on travels at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on July 11, 2020. The statement reads, “The Management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) hereby strongly condemns the conduct of the former Governor of Zamfara State, Alh. Abdulaziz Yari who blatantly violated the Public Health procedures (#COVID19)on travels at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on Saturday 11th July 2020.” READ ALSO: Passengers To Arrive Airport One and Half Hours Before Flight – Minister of Aviation FAAN said Yari forcefully pushed the staff who insisted that his luggage must be disinfected before boarding, saying he was a VIP. “He(Yari) refused to adhere to the protocols and procedures put in place by the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID19 by forcefully pushing away an officer of the Environment department when he insisted that his luggage must be disinfected. “The former Governor said the officer should have known he is a VIP.  This irresponsible act endangers all other airport users, it is unacceptable, and as such it has been duly escalated”, the statement reads. FAAN urged all airport users, especially our esteemed VIPs , to adhere to the Presidential directive by observing the Public Health travel protocols put in place to protect all air travellers against infection and the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday sent condolences to the family of Tolulope Arotile, Nigeria’s first and only female combat helicopter pilot, who died on Tuesday. Arotile, who hails from Iffe in Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State, died in an auto-crash at NAF Base Kaduna on Tuesday. In a condolence message signed by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President Media and Publicity, the president described Arotile as a promising officer whose has bravely contributed to the war against bandits and terrorist in the country. The statement reads, “President Muhammadu Buhari received with deep pain the passing of Flying Officer, Tolulope Arotile, condoling with the family on loss of such a promising officer, whose short stay on earth impacted greatly on the nation, especially in peace and security. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s First And Only Female Combat Helicopter Pilot Dies In An Auto-crash President Buhari saluted Arotile for her bravery and skills in manoeuvring combat helicopters, and prayed that the Lord would comfort her family and the Nigerian Airforce. “The President salutes Arotile’s bravery in the field to protect the country from onslaught of bandits and terrorists, assuring that her memory will be indelible, and her efforts remembered. “President Buhari commiserates with the Nigerian Air Force, airmen, airwomen and all friends of the deceased, recalling her deft skills in manoeuvring combat helicopters, which he had physically witnessed with pride. “The President sympathises with government and people of Kogi State on the loss. President Buhari prays that the Almighty God will receive the soul of the departed, and comfort the family she left behind”, the statement read.