The organiser of Ballon d’Or, the most prestigious individual football trophy, has announced that there would be no award in 2020. France Football, the organiser of the award, disclosed this in a statement signed by its editor-in-chief, Pascal Ferré, published on its site on Monday. The most prestigious award which was first held in 1956 will not hold this year giving the coronavirus pandemic disruption. The statement reads, “For the first time since 1956, the Ballon d’Or will take a break. There will be no edition in 2020, because it turns out, after thoughtful consideration, that all the conditions are not met. We believe that such a singular year cannot -and should not- be treated as an ordinary one. “From a sports perspective, two months (January and February), out of the eleven generally required to form an opinion and decide who should lift the trophies, represent far too little to gauge and judge; without forgetting that the other games were played – or will be played – in unordinary conditions (behind closed doors, with five replacements, Champions League’s Final 8 played in a single game). “Finally, the equity that prevails for this honorary title will not be warranted, especially when it comes to accounting and preparation: all the award seekers will not be in the same boat, some having seen their season cut short. Therefore, how can we establish a fair comparison? To avoid overly convoluted calculations and projections, we chose the least bad of the options. The statement added, “The Ballon d’Or will gather again the football big family and enthusiasts in 2021, to relive the happiness that surrounds the ceremonies as we have experienced them in recent years”. No fewer than 320 Emergency Health Workers that served in insurgency affected Local Government Areas of Borno are yet to be paid their three months outstanding allowance. They have therefore urged Federal and Borno state governments to assist them get their outstanding allowance. The over 300 health workers were recruited under the Health and Nutrition Emergency Response Project (HNERP) supported by Federal and Borno governments. In a press conference in Maiduguri on Sunday, the affected health workers led by  their Chairman,  Mr. Isaac Nsoha, and Secretary, Dr. Yusuf Usman, said the project was for one year but when the one year lapsed, they were asked by the state Director of the project, Dr. Babagana Shehu to continue and they did for three months but were yet to be paid for the three months. They said Shehu told them to continue, claiming that the state government was talking to federal government on extending the project to three years, but after three months without pay they had to stop. “The first contract expired last year around the 30th of November, 2019, and we were asked to continue working by the State coordinator of the project in the person of Dr Babagana Shehu; of which we were supervised throughout the three months, before we were asked to submit our Jackets on the 1st of March, 2020, that the program has been stopped.” They noted that they recipients of their services were mostly people leaving in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps who are in dire need of the intervention, adding that its not fair to deny health workers who made sacrifice to work in such volatile areas of their entitlements. When contacted on the development, the state Commissioner of Health, Dr. Salihu Kwaya-Bura, said the ministry was making effort to address the issue and that a communication on the issue was before the state governor. The emergency health workers include, doctors, nurses, pharmacists, medical records personnel, nutritionists, community health emergencies workers, medical laboratory scientists and technicians.