Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has urged Lagosians to “calm down”, celebrate Sallah with moderation and observe prescribed protocols towards defeating the deadly coronavirus Borrowing words from the trending video of a boy who was seen begging his mother to “calm down” and not punish him for picking what was not given to him, Sanwo-Olu in his sallah message shared via his twitter handle on Wednesday, urged Lagosians to celebrate with moderation and observe prescribed protocols towards defeating the deadly coronavirus He said, “I saw a video of a charming young boy online asking his mom to ‘calm down’ as she was set to punish him for a misdemeanour. “I was moved by his sobriety, which reflected in his promise of “last chance”, when confronted with the fact that he is a regular offender. “The exchange was indeed funny, but it depicted the efforts parents put into moulding children into responsible adults. “I want to assume that his mom indeed calmed down because the appeal was moving enough to make anyone change their mind. “Interestingly, the video inspired this special message to the good people of Lagos State because of the deeper meaning it conveys. “Fellow Lagosians, we need to ‘calm down’ as we enjoy the coming holiday and festivity. Sanwo-Olu, who said he would love to meet the young boy in the trending video, asked every Lagosian should ‘calm down’ and not get carried away by the excitement of the moment. “It is a commemoration of Prophet Ibrahim’s heart of sacrifice and faith in Allah. “We need to emulate and demonstrate his sense of self- restraint at this time the world is combating the scourge of COVID-19. “We need to be moderate in our celebration and observe prescribed protocols towards defeating the deadly coronavirus. The world needs the responsibility and commitment of its people to oust coronavirus. “Like the rest of the world, we are still in the middle of a pandemic and need to remain extremely careful to keep the gains of the  sacrifices we have all made in the past months. “As an aside, I would like to meet the young boy since we both now have exclusive right to the phrasal verb ‘calm down’, he said. The President of African Bank of Development (AfDB) Akinwumi Adesina, has reiterated his dedication to Africa’s development following an independent panel that cleared him of corruption allegations. Adesina had been accused of poor governance, impunity, personal enrichment and favouritism in a 15-page report by a whistleblower. However, an independent panel of experts, headed by a former Irish president Mary Robinson, on Tuesday cleared him of all corruption allegations. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s Adesina Cleared Of Wrong Doing At AfDB This development got President Muhammadu Buhari congratulate Adesina in a tweet, saying the outcome of the independent panel “further validates Adesina’s competence and integrity to lead the African Development Bank. Reacting to president Buhari’s tweet on Wednesday, Adesina, in a tweet, appreciated the president for his support and pledged his dedication to Africa’s accelerated development. He said, “Thank you very much Your Excellency President Buhari @MBuhari for your kind words, good wishes, counsel and extraordinary support. I am very humbled and grateful. I am totally dedicated to Africa’s accelerated development, and to this I recommit myself.” READ ALSO: ‘I Will Continue To Support You,’ Buhari Assures Adesina, AfDB President Following his vindication by an Independent Review Panel, Adesina is set for re-election next month as president of the African Development Bank (AfDB). The election ought to have held in May but was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.