No fewer than 35 medical doctors in Kwara have tested positive for COVID-19 since the pandemic broke out earlier this year according to the state branch of the Nigerian Medical Association. The Kwara State chairman of NMA, Dr. Kolade Solagberu, however told journalists on Monday that the association had not recorded any deaths from the 35 that were infected. Solagberu asked the public to take the pandemic more seriously, help protect health workers and avoid visiting hospitals during the pandemic, unless it is a life-threatening case. READ ALSO: Kwara State CoS Dies Of COVID-19 He said, “Residents should help the doctors to help them by not paying unnecessary visits or consultations to hospitals “For now, people should avoid visiting the hospital except for life-threatening issues. We advise people to engage in e-health services instead of physical consultation to avoid contact as much as possible.” READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Deaths Now 740 Solagberu, “People should stop unnecessary visits to patients in the hospital. Those who follow a patient waiting to be attended to, are not encouraged for now. “You should just help us to help you because the less the number of patients we attend to, the less the chances of spreading the virus. This is because every patient is a potential COVID-19 case.” At least 4.48m people have applied online for recruitment in the third batch of N-Power supevided by the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Investments. Yet, under the scheme, where enrollment for the third batch started on June 26, only 400,000 applicants will absorbed in the National Social Investment Scheme. READ ALSO: Buhari Cannot Create Jobs For Everybody – Ismaeel Ahmed According to earlier statements from the ministry, at least one million people applied for the scheme in the first 48 hours after the online portal for applications were opened. The ministry has also said only 400,000 applicants will be absorbed into the third batch of its N-Power National Social Investment Scheme (NSIP) at the end of the recruitment exercise. READ ALSO: Buhari Extends Lockdown, Adds 1m Poor Nigerians To Social Investment Register The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouq posted the latest figures on Sunday in a late night tweet. She said, “My team and I continue to interface with stakeholders to ensure a successful transition for the @npower_ng. It has been 16 days since the portal opened and we have received 4.48 million applications to date”.