The Department of Justice US Attorney’s Office has said that Ramoni Abbas, popularly known as Hushpuppi, would be jailed for 20 years if convicted of conspiracy to engage in money laundering. The American Department of Justice in a statement on Friday said Hushpuppi arrived the US for trial on Thursday, adding that he made his first appearance in court on Friday in Chicago. Hushpuppi’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Anil J. Antony and Joseph B. Woodring of the Cyber and Intellectual Property Crimes Section. READ ALSO: Dubai Police Extradites Hushpuppi To US The statement read in part, “Ramon Olorunwa Abbas, 37, a.k.a. “Ray Hushpuppi” and “Hush,” a Nigerian national, arrived in Chicago Thursday evening after being expelled from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Abbas made his initial U.S. court appearance this morning in Chicago, and he is expected to be transferred to Los Angeles in the coming weeks. “Abbas was arrested last month by UAE law enforcement officials. FBI special agents earlier this week obtained custody of Abbas and brought him to the United States to face a charge of conspiring to engage in money laundering that is alleged in a criminal complaint filed on June 25 by federal prosecutors in Los Angeles… Allegations against Hushpuppi according the statement include: defrauding of a New-York based law firm of over $900,000, conspiracy to launder funds stolen in a $14.7 million cyber-heist, and another plot to defraud an English Premier League soccer club the sum of $124 million. “The affidavit alleges that Abbas and others committed a BEC scheme that defrauded a client of a New York-based law firm out of approximately $922,857 in October 2019. Abbas and co-conspirators allegedly tricked one of the law firm’s paralegals into wiring money intended for the client’s real estate refinancing to a bank account that was controlled by Abbas and the co-conspirators. “The affidavit also alleges that Abbas conspired to launder funds stolen in a $14.7 million cyber-heist from a foreign financial institution in February 2019, in which the stolen money was sent to bank accounts around the world. Abbas allegedly provided a co-conspirator with two bank accounts in Europe that Abbas anticipated each would receive €5 million (about $5.6 million) of the fraudulently obtained funds. “Abbas and others further conspired to launder hundreds of millions of dollars from other fraudulent schemes and computer intrusions, including one scheme to steal £100 million (approximately $124 million) from an English Premier League soccer club, the complaint alleges. “If convicted of conspiracy to engage in money laundering, Abbas would face a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in federal prison”, the statement read. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has appointed Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, to Chair Edo State governorship National Campaign Council. Wike who recently criticised the National Working Committee over its handling of some issues on Edo governorship election will be heading Governor Godwin Obaseki’s reelection campaign. The party announced Wike’s appointment via its official twitter handle on Friday, adding that Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, would serve as deputy to Wike. “The @OfficialPDPNig NWC has appointed the Governor of Rivers State, H. E. Chief @NyesomWlKE as the Chairman of Edo State Governorship Election National Campaign Council.  The deputy chairman is Adamawa State Governor, Rt. Hon. Ahmadu Fintiri”, the tweet read. Godwin Obaseki, the incumbent Edo governor, defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the PDP to pursue reelection, while Ize-Iyamu joined the APC from the PDP. READ ALSO: Obaseki Joins PDP, Eyes Governorship Ticket
Edo governorship election is scheduled to hold on September 19, according to Independent Electoral Commission (INEC).