President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday said he received the news of the passing of Ismaila Isa Funtua with deep sadness, saying Funtua’s death has created a huge gap. Malam Isma’ila Isa Funtua, who was Life Patron of International Press Institute and Newspapers Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN) and a close ally of Buhari, died on Monday afternoon. In a condolence message by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity on Monday, the “President condoles with family members, government and people of Katsina State, and all associates of the former President of NPAN, especially the media industry, on the loss, describing him as “greatly admired and respected’’. President Buhari said he believed the demise of the publisher and businessman has created a huge gap as Malam Funtua consistently stood by him in his political journey. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Ismaila Isa Funtua Is Dead The President prayed to Allah for repose of Malam Funtua’s soul, and to grant the family strength and fortitude to bear the loss. Popularly known by the name of his home town, Funtua in Katsina, Isa was founder and chairman of Bullet Construction, which built the Office of the Head of Service right next to the Federal Secretariat. He was also the publisher of the Democrat Newspaper, which was based in Kaduna. He was at a time, President of the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN). Funtua was also the father-in-law of Ahmed Kuru, the managing director of Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON). He will buried on Tuesday, at 1pm, according to Islamic rites. Ismaila Isa Funtua, a business mogul and former Minister of Commerce in the government of Shehu Shagari is dead. He reportedly died of a heart attack on Monday afternoon. In recent years, Isa was named as part of the so called cabal that called the shots in the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. Popularly known by the name of his home town, Funtua in Katsina, Isa was founder and chairman of Bullet Construction, which built the Office of the Head of Service right next to the Federal Secretariat. He was also the publisher of the Democrat Newspaper, which was based in Kaduna. He was at a time, President of the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN). Funtua was also the father-in-law of Ahmed Kuru, the managing director of Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON). He will buried on Tuesday, at 1pm, according to Islamic rites.