The Federal Government has approved another evacuation flight for stranded Nigerians in the United States. This will be the fourth time the Nigerian government is evacuating its citizens stranded in the US as a result the COVID-19 pandemic. The flight is scheduled to depart Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR), New Jersey on Tuesday, July 28, 2020 by 21:15hrs and arrive Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (ABV), ABUJA on Wednesday, July 29, 2020 by 13:25hrs. READ ALSO: Evacuation Of Nigerians Stranded Abroad Begins This Week This was disclosed in a statement by Consulate General of Nigeria, New York, shared via twitter by Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, on Friday. The statement said, “All prospective evacuees duly registered with any of the three Nigerian Missions in the USA should purchase their one-way tickets through www.ethiopianairlines.com at the cost of USD 1,250.00 for Economy class and USD2,800.00 for Business Class for adult/child fare, including all taxes, with the usual percentage reduction for infants under 2yrs. “All prospective evacuees who purchased tickets, should forward a copy of their evacuation ticket, as well as the name, phone number and contact address of their Next of Kin in Nigeria to cgnny@nigeriahouse.com, which will be done on a ‘first come, first served’ basis.” READ ALSO: 292 Nigerians Evacuated From Saudi Arabia – Onyeama It added that prospective evacuees must adhere strictly to safety guidelines and precautions put in place by the Nigerian Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 to be considered for evacuation. READ ALSO: FG Evacuates 268 Nigerians Stranded In China “In accordance with the Nigerian Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, all prospective evacuees must present an original COVID-19 NEGATIVE test result (not older than 14 days on the day of departure) at the Airport and undergo a Temperature check 4hrs before departure. “Any intending evacuees without the stipulated test result, or a body temperature above 38 degrees centigrade, or any symptoms suggestive of COVID-19, WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO CHECK IN. “While on board, all prospective evacuees are required to wear face masks and be in possession of a hand sanitizer for intermittent use throughout the journey. Furthermore, all returnees are enjoined to adhere strictly to all instructions of Port Health Services (PHS) officials and observe other entry screening protocols on arrival”, the statement read. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Thursday reported 499 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 30,748. The NCDC update showed that 12,546 patients had recovered and discharged from hospital and 689 had so far died from the Coronavirus disease. Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 157, while Edo State was second on the list with 59 new cases. READ ALSO: 15 More Die From COVID-19 Complications In Ondo State, there were 56 new cases, 31 in Oyo State, 22 in Akwa Ibom State, 21 in Borno State, 19 in Plateau State and 18 each in Kaduna and Katsina states. Both Bayelsa State and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 17 each, Delta State had 14, Kano State reported 11, while Rivers State had 10. READ ALSO: More Than 30,000 Cases Of COVID-19 Confirmed In Nigeria Enugu State recorded eight new cases, Ogun State had six, Kwara State had four, Imo State had three, Nasarawa and Osun states had two each, while Abia, Ekiti, Niger and Yobe states had one each.