Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has told the former Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, that he can’t sell a bad candidate to Edo people in the forthcoming governorship election, slated for September 19, 2020. In a statement on Friday by Paulinus Nsirim, Commissioner for Information and Communications, Rivers State, Wike, who is the  Chairman of the PDP Edo State Governorship Campaign Council, said that Oshiomhole during campaign previous election in the state, had labelled Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the Edo State Governorship candidate of the APC a bad product. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Governor Wike To Head Obaseki’s Campaign He therefore told Oshiomhole that he couldn’t sell that same bad product to the good and discerning people of Edo State. “Adams Oshiomhole told Edo people that Ize Iyamu was rusticated from school; that he poured acid on a fellow student that destroyed his manhood. That he is an armed robber that cannot be trusted with money. Such a character cannot be accepted by Edo people as Governor during the election. “I respect the Benin tradition and I know that Edo people are educated to know that Oshiomhole cannot play on their intelligence. If he is now retracting what he said of Ize Iyamu, who is sure that he’s saying the correct thing now. “Adams Oshiomhole’s sudden u-turn is a great insult on Edo people. This is an opportunity for Edo people both at home and in the diaspora to use their votes to tell Oshiomole that they cannot take his lies anymore. READ ALSO: I Don’t Need A Godfather To Win – Ize-Iyamu “From all indications, it is obvious that there is no strong opposition against Obaseki and he will win convincingly, ” Wike said. He added that the description of Pastor Ize-Iyamu as a bad product which could not be sold to Edo people, by the former APC national Chairman had already enhanced the PDP and Governor Godwin Obaseki’s campaign immensely. “It makes it easy for the governor to now concentrate his campaign on issues of governance and his numerous achievements in the last four years. Sadly, Pastor Ize-Iyamu has nothing to offer Edo people, except the empty promises, which even Oshiomhole has dismissed by telling the world that Ize-Iyamu lies too much,” he said. Wike appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari, to leave a lasting democratic legacy behind, by ensuring that the Edo State gubernatorial election is free and fair and devoid of the intimidation and threatened subversion of the electoral laws. Italian Club, Napoli, on Friday completed the transfer of Nigeria Striker, Victor Osimhen from Lille. Napoli management made this announcement in a statement published on its websites on Friday. Osimhen, 21, who won the 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Chile with Nigeria and won the Golden Boot and Silver Ball awards in the same completion, will be playing with the Italian side next season. The Italian side expressed excitement in the signing of Osimhen, who netted 18 goals in his 38 appearances for Lille. The statement reads,”SSC Napoli are delighted to announce the signing of Victor Osimhen from Lille on a permanent transfer. “Osimhen came through the youth ranks at Ultimate Strikers Academy in Lagos and turned professional shortly after his 18th birthday when he joined Wolfsburg. “He spent the 2017/18 season in Germany before moving to Charleroi on loan the following year. He was an instant success in the Jupiler Pro League, netting 20 goals in 36 appearances. “Lille snapped him up in the summer of 2019 and he went on to play 38 times for the French side, bagging 18 goals in the process. “Osimhen helped Nigeria win the U17 World Cup in 2015, when he finished as the tournament’s top scorer with 10 goals. He made his full Nigeria debut in June 2017 and so far has 10 caps and four goals to his name.”