A former acting managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Joy Nunieh, has narrated how she was rescued by River State governor, Nyesom Wike, from policemen who attempted breaking into her home to arrest on Thursday. Speaking on the incident with journalists on Thursday, Nunieh, who accused Akpabio of harassing her and also asking her to take an oath, said the attempt to arrest her had to do with her appearance before the House of Representative committee scheduled for the same day in Abuja, She added that the police were coming for while the man who stole the money was left alone. “I was supposed to be going to Abuja to today to do my submission before the House of Representatives committee. I’m sure it is about that. Meanwhile, the man that harassed me, is at home. The man who stole the money is at home. The man who stole government’s file is at home. The man who said I should go and take an oath is at home”, she said. READ ALSO: ‘I slapped Akpabio Because He Was Sexually Harassing Me,’ Ex NDDC MD, Nunieh Says Narrating how Wike came to her rescue, Nunieh said policemen who came to her house at around 4.am tried to break into her house to arrest her in the early hours of Thursday. She said, “Early this morning around 4.am I heard people were at my gate. I made some calls, I tried to reach the governor because he had told that if I saw any strange movement I should alert him since I issued a statement. “So I tried to reach him, his phones were off and I called some people are they said they might not be real policemen. They said they came to take me away, I said for what? Do they have a warrant of arrest? They said no warrant of arrest. About 6.am they broke the gate. “Later Senator Magnus Abe now called me that he had reached the commissioner of police who said he didn’t know anything about it. So the CP called me, I sent my address he came. They told me the CP was down stairs but he wasn’t there. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD “I think it was the DCP. So I opened the door, they wanted to grab me, I now pushed back the door, locked it and went back upstairs. I got through to my governor. They tried to break my house back door, it’s a security door. They kept hitting it for over one hour they couldn’t get access. “So my governor came as asked them of warrant of arrest and why couldn’t they invite me to the police that I would have honoured their invitation. Instead of going to take a woman like a criminal. So the governor took me in his car. Here I am a refugee in the government house.” Nunieh had accused the Minister of Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio, of corruption when she first appeared before lawmakers probing into how the sum of N40bn was recklessly squandered between January and March 2020 in the Commission. Akpabio has however denied all the allegations, saying that Nunieh is temperamental. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is anticipating the connection of all things, including cars, smart homes, with their lightings, heaters and fridges to the internet with the launch of the 5G network. Data released recently by the NCC describes the 5th generation mobile network as a new global wireless standard after 1G, 2G, 3G, and 4G networks. The NCC analysis on how the new technology will impact points out that 5G enables a new kind of network that is designed to connect virtually everyone and everything together including machines, objects, and devices. While labeling it as the future, 5G wireless technology has also been identified as capable of delivering higher data speeds, ultra-low latency, more reliability, massive network capacity, increased availability, and a more uniform user experience to more users. It has the potential to provide 20 times faster data speeds and carries a massive amount of data for a large number of simultaneous users. READ ALSO: NCC Prepares Policy For 5G Deployment So users in high-density areas – like airports, stadiums or urban areas – can still experience the fast speeds and low latency of 5G service. The NCC believes the technology will improve users experience. As the world replaces more and more household items with ‘smart devices’ that connect to the internet, also known as the Internet of Things, NCC says this network capacity will be critical. “5G will potentially be able to handle more than 2.5 million connected devices per square mile. 5G is a transformational change from 4G.” The regulatory agency which only recently set up a committee to engage stakeholders on how to deploy the technology has said, “5G will enhance technological development because of the extremely fast transfer rate of large quantities of data. READ ALSO: NCC Offers Parents Tips To Protect Children From Dangers Of Internet “Overall, it enables interconnected devices for instant communication. This is a new connected world of ‘Smart cities’ made possible by 5G networks.” According to NCC documents, “5G is extremely fast: it supports data transfer rates of up to 20Gbit/s, if supported by robust fibre infrastructure. On top of that, wireless data delays drop to one millisecond. “This opens up the potential for multiple driverless cars, where large quantities of potentially lifesaving data have to be transferred almost instantaneously.”