The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has approved massive deployment of personnel across the nation’s roads in preparation for Eid el Kabir. Oyeyemi directed Commanding Officers to collaborate with COVID-19 Task Force teams and security agencies to ensure maximum compliance with established laws, orders and  directives on physical distancing, compulsory use of face mask and restrictions of movement across states. In a statement by Bizi Kazeem, the Corp Public Education Officer,  FRSC said the special patrol would commence from July 22, to July 30, 2020. Oyeyemi, according to the statement gave the directive in an operational order released to field Commands where the Corps Marshal maintained that massive deployment of personnel to ensure free flow of traffic, prompt removal of obstructions and timely rescue services in the event of any road traffic crash are critical to the realisation of a safe motoring environment during the season and beyond. READ ALSO: FRSC Boss Seeks For Safer Roads During Ramadan The Corps Marshal outlined the modus operandi for a successful 2020 Eid-el-kabir celebration and gave Commanding Officers marching orders to enforce without compromise all established laws and orders on safe road use. While charging them on the need to give maximum effect to Presidential Orders, Oyeyemi revealed that the objectives of the special patrol is to achieve among others, the following; Compliance with protocol and guidelines set up by the various states with respect to COVID-19, ensure that the Presidential Orders on interstate travels and restrictions are diligently enforced with all sense of professionalism and civility and curtail the occurrence of Road Traffic Crashes within the period and provide prompt rescue services, when necessary. Other targets include ensuring full deployment of patrol vehicles, ambulances, tow trucks, bikes and other patrol equipment and to collaborate with security agencies to ensure effective traffic management, increased visibility on the highways, and strict enforcement of overloading and physical distancing violations  amongst commuters. READ ALSO: How FRSC Officials Rescued Pregnant Driver In Labour Kazeem quoting Oyeyemi said, “He warned that the special patrol was necessitated by the upsurge in road traffic volume and the rise in COVID-19 cases Nationwide. The strategies deployed are anchored on achieving a decline in transmission of the virus amongst commuters and the need to mitigate the attendant risks of road traffic crashes. “As such, the Corps Marshal further instructed Commanding Officers to apprehend any vehicle caught in the act of overloading their vehicles with both persons and goods. The traffic offenders are to be prosecuted in the already established mobile courts across the federation.” The Corp Marshal called on all Nigerians to be at alert, cautious and exhibit required road discipline before, during and after the celebrations. The telecommunications sector’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew to 10.88 per cent in the first quarter of 2020. This was contained in data released by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), which suggested the 10.88 per cent contribution remains the second highest by the telecoms sector to the GDP. The telecoms sector contributed 11.39 per cent  to Nigeria’s GDP in the second quarter of 2019, the highest so far but analysis of the statistics showed a steady growth in percentage contribution of the sector to the GDP since year 2012, when the commission started computing its GDP contribution to the Nigerian economy. READ ALSO: Pantami Launches NCC Emergency Centre In Kaduna The Commission is responsible for creating an enabling environment for competition among operators in the industry as well as ensuring the provision of qualitative and efficient telecommunications services throughout the country. READ ALSO: NCC Sets New Rules On Financial Records Submission In Telecoms Industry The NCC has earned a reputation as the foremost Telecoms regulatory agency in Africa. The Commission is hoping to catalyze the use of ICT’S for various aspects of national development. The Commission has initiated several programmes such as State Accelerated Broadband Initiative (SABI) and Wire
Nigeria Project (WIN) to help stimulate demand and accelerate the uptake of ICT tools and services necessary for the enthronement of a knowledge society in Nigeria.