The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is offering a N3m grant each to the three most promising ideas from startups to develop digital solution to help combat COVID-19. A number of countries across the globe have deployed contact-tracing application to help contain the spread of the Coronavirus disease. The NCC is however asking for innovations to help health workers, educate the public with e-learning solutions, aid economic activities while observing social distancing measures and provide safe transportation solutions. NCC on Tuesday invited entries from interested Tech Hubs, Startups and Innovation Digital SMEs to a virtual hackathon for adaptable digital solutions that would address the impacts of pandemic  in Nigeria. NCC said in a statement, “Pursuant to this objective, the commission invites entries from tech hubs, startups and innovation digital SMEs with promising and adaptable digital solutions that will aid in containing the impacts of pandemic and epidemic-prone diseases in Nigeria to a virtual Hackathon.” The NCC said that the top three startups with the most promising digital Solutions would receive a grant of N3m (Three Million Naira only) each from the Commission to aid the development and deployment of these solutions in Nigeria. Interested tech hubs, startups and innovation digital SMEs are expected to submit soft copies (email to yikabir@ncc.gov.ng; fbruce@ncc.gov.ng; chimezie@ncc.gov.ng) by 5 pm, Monday July 17 2020. The Commission said interested applicants would need to have solutions that address issues in the following fields of interest: Health: finding ways to empower healthcare workers on the front lines and bring support to individuals isolated at home. It should also include solutions to prevent, trace and contain the spread of Coronavirus in Nigeria. Whereas the Community level would require help with digital communications that will aid the sustenance of economic activities and people to people communication while encouraging social distancing, that of Productivity would require a solution that would enhance the productivity of people working from home during this lockdown and beyond. Furthermore, while the Education level requires that an Easy to Deploy, accessible and cost-effective eLearning solutions for public schools be provided, at the Transportation level, it is required that a solution that will improve safety in public transportation facilities in Nigeria should be provided. The criteria for evaluation of the proposed digital solutions include adherence of proposal to stated requirements, novelty, clear problem statement and explanation of the proposed solution. Another measure of acceptance for the solution as stated by the Commission is that each solution including prototype development must be concluded within two months of receipt of the grant and proof of concept, that is, feasibility of idea with diagram, algorithm, among others. While explaining that the submissions of the proposal will undergo preliminary assessment, the NCC said the proposals that are adjudged most promising and capable of positively impacting the fight against COVID-19 may be invited for the defence of the proposals before a decision is taken on winners. The Commission also stated that all emails should indicate ‘Digital Solutions for COVID-19’ in the subject field, while any proposal submitted after the deadline would be rejected automatically.