The death toll from COVID-19 infections in Nigeria now stands at 801 according to the latest update from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The NCDC on Monday also reported 562 new cases with confirmed cases in the country reaching 37,225 and 15,333 patients discharged. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported the highest number of new cases with 102, while Lagos recorded 100 cases. In Plateau State there were 52 new cases, 50 in Kwara State, 47 in Abia State, 35 in Kaduna State, 34 in Benue State, 26 in Oyo State and 24 in Ebonyi State. There were 16 new cases in Kano State, 15 in Niger State, 14 in Anambra State, 12 in Gombe State and 11 in Edo State. There were six new in Rivers State, five each in Nasarawa and Delta states, three in Borno State, two each in Enugu and Bauchi states and one Kebbi State. A former vice oresdient Atiku Abubakar, a former senate president, Bukola Saraki, former speaker of House of Representatives have reacted to Ismaila Isa Funtua’s death. Funtua, a confidant of President Muhamadu Buhari died of cardiac arrest on Monday. Reacting to Funtua’s demise via his twitter page, Atiku sent his condolence message to Funtua’s family, praying for the soul of the deceased to find eternal rest. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Ismaila Isa Funtua Is Dead He said, “On behalf of my family, I convey my deepest condolences to the Funtua family over the loss of its patriarch, Ismaila lsa Funtua. May Allah forgive his sins and grant him Aljannah Firdaus. I pray for the needed comfort and strength for his family, friends and associates to bear the loss. Ameen.” Saraki, who described Funtua as a valued associate of his late father in his tweet, condoled with President Buhari over Funtua’s death. “I condole with His Excellency, President @MBuhari GCFR, on the death of Alhaji Ismaila Isa Funtua. As a valued associate of my late father, Alhaji Funtua always made himself available as a fountain of wisdom”, Saraki said. READ ALSO: Isa Funtua’s Death Has Created Huge Gap – Buhari A former speaker of the House of Representatives, Dogara in his condolence message via his twitter page said Funtua was a distinguished elderstatesnan with numerous legacies. “Malam Ismaila Isa Funtua was a Distinguished elderstatesman, media icon, construction magnate, industrialist & a patriot whose legacies are too numerous to list. My condolences to his family, friends, associates, the people & Govt of Katsina state. May his soul rest in peace”, Dogara said. Ben Murray Bruce, a former senator who said he spoke with Funtua three hours before he died, expressed shock over his passing. “I am saddened by the death of my brother and senior colleague, Mallam Isa Funtua. I spoke to him just three hours before his reported death, and he promised to further call me tomorrow. I pray that God comforts his family and loved ones, and may his soul rest in peace,” he tweeted. Funtua was founder and chairman of Bullet Construction, which built the Office of the Head of Service right next to the Federal Secretariat. He was also the publisher of the Democrat Newspaper, which was based in Kaduna. He was at a time, President of the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN). Funtua will be buried on Tuesday, at 1pm, according to Islamic rites.