The United States Embassy in Nigeria has reacted to the killing of five humanitarian workers in Northeast by Boko Haram terrorists. Boko Haram had posted a video on social media showing the execution of five humanitarian workers who were believed to have been kidnapped as far back as June 29, 2020 while on their way to Monguna, from Maiduguri the Borno State capital. In a statement on Thursday via its official twitter handle, the US mission in Nigeria, expressed sadness over the killing of humanitarian workers by terrorists. READ ALSO: Boko Haram Executes Five Humanitarian Workers The statement reads, “We are deeply saddened by the execution of five humanitarian workers by terrorists in Northeast Nigeria. This comes against a backdrop of deteriorating conditions for millions of Nigerians.” The statement described the executed humanitarian workers as brave individuals who were dedicated to easing human suffering in Northeast. “These brave individuals dedicated their lives to easing human suffering. We hope that their families and colleagues can take comfort in their selfless sacrifices on behalf of others. We will remember their dedication to others,” the statement read. With more than 500 new cases being reported daily, the number confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria is now days away from hitting the 40,000 mark. On Thursday, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reported 604 new cases of the Coronavirus disease taking the total number of confirmed cases to 38,948. The NCDC update also shows 16,061 patients have been discharged hospitals while 833 deaths have been reported. READ ALSO: 801 Nigerians Dead From COVID-19 Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 203, followed by Oyo, which reported 87 cases. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) recorded 79 new cases, Edo State reported 41, Osun State had 35, Ogun State had 24, while Rivers and Kaduna states had 22 new cases each. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Cases Hit 35,454 In Akwa Ibom State there were 20 new cases, 18 in Plateau State, nine each in Delta and Ebonyi states, eight Imo State and five each in Enugu, Kano and Cross River states. There were four new cases in Katsina, three in Nasarawa, two each in Borno and Ekiti, and one in Bauchi.