Lagos State government has disclosed that it could spend up to N1m daily on each patient with severe Coronavirus symptoms. Akin Abayomi, Lagos State commissioner for health, disclosed this on Thursday in a press briefing on the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. When asked on the cost of managing COVID-19 patients during the briefing, Abayomi said the cost of managing each patients varied and depended on their conditions. READ ALSO: As COVID-19 Deaths Hit 709, Lagos Reports New High Of 224 Single Day Cases The commissioner said the state spent the sum of N100,000 daily on patients with mild symptoms, while each of those with severe conditions could cost the state up to N1m daily. “To treat mild to moderate case patients in our Isolation centre is somewhere in the region of N100, 000 per day. “This gives you an idea on the amount of money the government is spending on COVID-19 isolation facilities and COVID-19 care in the state. “If you require high care or intensive care, that amount can go up from anything from N500, 000 to even a million naira per day,” Abayomi said. READ ALSO: Lagos Lawmaker, Tunde Braimoh Is Dead The cost of care for each patient include whether the patient needs ventilation, oxygen, dialysis, intravenous antibiotics and others,” Abayomi added. “Every case is different, so it is very difficult to calculate exactly how much a patient in high care or intensive care would cost.” Lagos has recorded 14,009 cases of Coronavirus, 192 deaths, while 2075 have been treated and discharged. The United States Embassy in Nigeria has reacted to the killing of five humanitarian workers in Northeast by Boko Haram terrorists. Boko Haram had posted a video on social media showing the execution of five humanitarian workers who were believed to have been kidnapped as far back as June 29, 2020 while on their way to Monguna, from Maiduguri the Borno State capital. In a statement on Thursday via its official twitter handle, the US mission in Nigeria, expressed sadness over the killing of humanitarian workers by terrorists. READ ALSO: Boko Haram Executes Five Humanitarian Workers The statement reads, “We are deeply saddened by the execution of five humanitarian workers by terrorists in Northeast Nigeria. This comes against a backdrop of deteriorating conditions for millions of Nigerians.” The statement described the executed humanitarian workers as brave individuals who were dedicated to easing human suffering in Northeast. “These brave individuals dedicated their lives to easing human suffering. We hope that their families and colleagues can take comfort in their selfless sacrifices on behalf of others. We will remember their dedication to others,” the statement read.