President Muhammadu Buhari joins Yoruba socio-cultural and political organisation, Afenifere, in mourning the passing of Pa Ayorinde Fasanmi. In a statement by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President onMedia and Publicity on Thursday, President Buhari described the death of Fasanmi as a great loss. “The President condoles with people and government of Osun and Ekiti States, family members, friends and associates of the elder statesman, who served as a legislator in both House of Representatives and Senate, and distinguished himself politically by always standing for the truth, especially on issues related to the uplifting of the downtrodden. READ ALSO: Afenifere Leader, Ayo Fasanmi Dies At 94 “President Buhari affirms that Chief Fasanmi’s wise counsels borne out of humility, deep reflection, diligent studies and experience will be sorely missed by governments at different levels, as he regularly and willingly listened to leaders, and always had a good advice on going forward”, the statement read. While consoling the family, President Buhari said that the efforts of Chief Fasanmi in the founding and sustenance of Nigeria’s democracy will be remembered, and posterity will be glad for his great sacrifices. The American President Donald Trump on Thursday hinted that he would rather the forthcoming Presidential election be delayed than compromise Americans safety. The American election is scheduled to hold on November 3. Trump in a tweet on Thursday suggested that the  election scheduled to hold on November 3 be delayed until people could safely vote. He claimed that Mail-In voting option would make the 2020 election the most “inaccurate and fraudulent” in the history of America if adopted. “With Universal Mail-In-Voting (not Absentee Voting, which is good), 2020 will be the most INACCURATE & FRAUDULENT Election in history. “It will be a great embarrassment to the USA. Delay the Election until people can properly, securely and safely vote?, Trump said. Trump is seeking  reelection against his major challenger, Democratic Party’s Joe Biden, who was vice president to Barack Obama.