African richest man, Aliko Dangote, has refuted rumours that he endorsed incumbent governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, for a second term. Anthony Chiejina, the Group Chief Corporate Communications Officer of the Dangote Group, in a statement on Sunday said reports claiming Dangote had endorsed Obaseki were false and should be disregarded, adding that Dangote has no candidate in the forthcoming Edo governorship election. “Our attention has been drawn to an online publication titled ‘Edo Guber: Dangote endorses Godwin Obaseki for second tenure’. READ ALSO: Obaseki Joins PDP, Eyes Governorship Ticket “This is the first time that I have seen people publicly campaign for electoral office using the name of my Boss and I have to stop it immediately so that others will not try it in future. “The said interview allegedly granted by Aliko Dangote in Abuja is an outright falsehood, a malicious, irresponsible and mischievous act aimed at tarnishing my boss’s reputation. Aliko Dangote has not travelled out of Lagos since March 19, 2020. “In fact, he said he has not crossed the Lagos Third Mainland Bridge since that date. His name and personality should not be drawn into any political campaign, Chiejina said. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Governor Wike To Head Obaseki’s Campaign While urging the public to disregard reports associating Dangote’s name and brand with partisan politics, Chiejina said Dangote is focused on development, job creation and philanthropy and not partisan, Chiejina said, “Aliko Dangote is an entrepreneur and business leader whose focus is on development, job creation and philanthropy. He has not endorsed anyone for electoral positions in Edo or any other state of Nigeria. “We caution the public to ignore claims from any quarter that associate the Dangote name or brand with partisan politics.” Edo governorship election is scheduled to hold on September 19 according to Independent Electoral Commission (INEC). Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has given President Muhammadu Buhari 14 days to investigate more than N300bn in public funds that have been declared missing, misappropriated or unaccounted for according the 2017 Audit Report of the Auditor General of the Federation. In a statement signed by the deputy director of SERAP, Kolawole Oluwadare, on Saturday, the civil society group asked the president to, “direct the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, and appropriate anti-corruption agencies to urgently investigate allegations that over N300bn of public funds are missing, mismanaged, diverted or stolen, as documented in the 2017 audited report by the Auditor General of the Federation (AGF).” SERAP said Malami and the anti-corruption agencies should promptly investigate the extent and patterns of widespread and endemic corruption in the ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) indicted in the audited report under the direction of the president. The letter read, “We urge you to take meaningful and effective measures to clean up an apparently entrenched system of corruption in these MDAs.” “The 2017 audited report reveals grim allegations of mismanagement, diversion and stealing of public funds, as well as unaccounted-for spending. The report suggests a grave violation of the public trust, and that the indicted MDAs and the National Assembly lack effective and credible internal processes to prevent and combat corruption”, SERAP said. It added that, “Investigating and prosecuting the alleged grand corruption documented by the AGF would improve the chances of success of your government’s oft-repeated commitment to fight corruption and end the impunity of perpetrators. It will improve the integrity of MDAs, serve the public interest, as well as improve Nigerians’ access to public services and goods. “Any failure to promptly investigate the allegations and prosecute suspected perpetrators would breach Nigeria’s anti-corruption legislation, including the Public Procurement Act, the 1999 Nigerian Constitution (as amended) and the country’s obligations including under the UN Convention against Corruption and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to which Nigeria is a state party.” SERAP said it would also mean that Nigeria is failing to fulfil the obligations under the covenant to use its “maximum of available resources” to progressively realise and achieve basic economic and social rights, including access of Nigerians to public services and goods like quality education, healthcare, clean water and regular electricity supply, as well as the right to honest public services.