The Federal Government has declared Thursday 30 and Friday 31 July, 2020 as Public Holidays to mark this year’s Eid-el-Kabir Celebration. This announcement was made by the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, in a statement signed by Georgina Ehuriah, the ministry of interior permanent secretary, on Tuesday. In the statement shared via the ministry’s official twitter handle, Aregbesola called on the Muslims to continue to imbibe the spirit of love, peace, kindness and sacrifice, as exemplified by Prophet Muhammad and to also use the period to pray for peace, unity, prosperity and the stability of the country especially as the world is witnessing global health challenges caused by Covid-19 pandemic. Wishing all Muslims a happy Eid –el- Kabir Celebration, Aregbosola said the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari was fully committed to battling the scourge with the cooperation of all Nigerians. He also stressed that government would continue to foster peaceful coexistence, national cohesion and stability in its march towards actualizing the full potentials of the country. The Minister advised Nigerians to take responsibility against the spread of COVID-19 and also to stay safe by observing physical and social distancing, personal and respiratory hygiene, as well as other regulations issued by relevant authorities. An independent panel of experts, headed by former Irish president Mary Robinson, has cleared the beleaguered leader of the African Bank of Development (AfDB) of corruption, according to a report by AFP. Akinwumi Adesina had been accused by whistleblowers in a 15-page report earlier this year mismanaging the bank, poor governance, impunity, personal enrichment and favouritism. The panel of three experts, led by Robinson alongside Gambia’s Chief Justice Hassan Jallow and the World Bank’s integrity vice president Leonard McCarthy, cleared Adesina of all charges alleged by whistleblowers. READ ALSO: ‘I Will Continue To Support You,’ Buhari Assures Adesina, AfDB President “The Panel concurs with the Committee in its findings in respect of all the allegations against the President and finds that they were properly considered and dismissed by the Committee,” Monday’s report concluded. The African banking institution and Adesina – who is the sole candidate for the bank’s August’s presidential elections – has been battered by the rollercoaster of allegations after the whistleblowers’ complaints were leaked to the media in April. The former Nigerian finance minister had always stated he was “innocent” of the charges. READ ALSO: AfDB Board Okays Independent Probe Of Adesina Robinson – who led Ireland from 1990 to 1997 before serving as the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights until 2002 – dismissed the 16 whistleblower allegations against Adesina. The panel did not investigate the charges themselves, as that was not within their mandate. The AfDB plays an important if largely behind-the-scenes role in African economies, financing projects in agriculture, health, energy, education, transport and other development sectors.