The telecommunications sector’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew to 10.88 per cent in the first quarter of 2020. This was contained in data released by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), which suggested the 10.88 per cent contribution remains the second highest by the telecoms sector to the GDP. The telecoms sector contributed 11.39 per cent  to Nigeria’s GDP in the second quarter of 2019, the highest so far but analysis of the statistics showed a steady growth in percentage contribution of the sector to the GDP since year 2012, when the commission started computing its GDP contribution to the Nigerian economy. READ ALSO: Pantami Launches NCC Emergency Centre In Kaduna The Commission is responsible for creating an enabling environment for competition among operators in the industry as well as ensuring the provision of qualitative and efficient telecommunications services throughout the country. READ ALSO: NCC Sets New Rules On Financial Records Submission In Telecoms Industry The NCC has earned a reputation as the foremost Telecoms regulatory agency in Africa. The Commission is hoping to catalyze the use of ICT’S for various aspects of national development. The Commission has initiated several programmes such as State Accelerated Broadband Initiative (SABI) and Wire
Nigeria Project (WIN) to help stimulate demand and accelerate the uptake of ICT tools and services necessary for the enthronement of a knowledge society in Nigeria. Ekiti State Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General, Wale Fapohunda, has tested positive for the deadly coronavirus disease. Fapohunda, who disclosed this in a tweet via his Twitter account on Sunday, said he had gone into self-isolation. He also stated that all state legal matters should be referred to the Solicitor- General of the state for the meantime. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Governor Fayemi Contracts COVID-19 He said “The result of my second COVID-19 test came out positive today. ”In line with the established protocols, I have commenced a period of self-isolation. ”In my absence, all state legal matters should be referred to the Solicitor-General of the State.” You may recall that the state governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, had last week also tested positive for the virus.