The Supreme Court in a ruling on Tuesday said court proceedings held virtually were constitutional after striking out a suit filed by the Attorney General of Lagos,  Moyosore Onigbanjo. Onigbanjo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria had challenged the powers of the National Assembly to pass laws determining the rules for court proceedings. The attorney general had also asked the Supreme Court to decide whether having regard to Section 36(1), (3) and (4) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) use of technology by remote hearings of any kind, whether by Zoom, Microsoft Teams, WhatsApp, Skype or any other audiovisual or video-conference platform by the Lagos state high court or any other courts in Nigeria in aid of hearing and determination of cases are constitutional. READ ALSO: All Government Meetings Must Be Virtual – FG While the court recognised that the National Assembly was presently considering a bill to make court proceedings on digital platforms constitutional, it however ruled in favour of virtual sittings describing the suit as immature and speculative. The seven panel of the court that made the ruling said the bill in the National Assembly was yet to go through the second and third reading and sent to all assemblies of the 36 states, the court cannot decide on it. The Supreme Court said, “Can we at this stage speculate the outcome of the national assembly? Even if we can, the amendment must have occurred before the suit matures,” the court held. “Even the devil knows not the intent of a man. Your suit is speculative and it is a fundamental law that we don’t act on speculations. Wait for them to pass the law and see if it will affect your own rules of court.” The Federal government has commenced the Special Public Works Programmes nationwide, aimed at the employment of 774,000 Nigerians. The minister of finance, budget and national planning, Zainab Ahmed, had in April announced that President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the engagement of 774,000 Nigerians on special public works programme as a fiscal stimulus measure to cushion the effect of COVID-19 pandemic. READ ALSO: How We ‘ll Spend N2.3trn COVID-19 Stimulus Funds – FG The take-off of the programme, which is to be coordinated by the ministry of labour, was announced via Nigerian government official Twitter handle, @Nigeriagov, on Tuesday. READ ALSO: Nigerian Government Begins Employment Of 774,000 Nigerians In October “The Special Public Works Programme of the Federal Government has kicked off nationwide. The State Selection Committees have been inaugurated and have commenced work. Find the names  and contact details of members of your State’s Committee here:”, the tweet read. READ ALSO: 774,000 Jobs: Lawmakers Can’t Order Me Around – Keyamo The Special Public Works Programme will engage 1,000 Nigerians from each of the 774 local government areas in the country for the next three months.