The Nigerian government on Monday announced the commencement date for the West African Examination Council (WAEC) examination for 2020. The federal government had postponed WAEC and NECO indefinitely in April due to COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at the daily Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja on Monday, Emeka Nwajiuba, Minister of State for Education, said this year’s WAEC examinations would commence on August 4. Urging parents to take note of the exam date, the minister said the examination would hold from August 4th to September 5th 2020. “WAEC will commence from the 4th of August to the 5th of September. Parents please take note”, he said. Nwajiuba added that other exams would also hold after WAEC had been concluded. He said, “As soon as we concluded WAEC, we will take NABTEB and NECO”. READ ALSO: FG To Reopen Schools For Final Year Students, Lifts Ban On Interstate Travel This development is coming after the federal government had approved the reopening of schools strictly for final year students in primary and secondary schools. The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, has tested negative for COVID-19 after six days in isolation. Akaredolu, who tested positive for the virus last week, made this announcement via his twitter handle on Monday. READ ALSO: Ondo Governor Tests Positive For COVID-19 “Today I delivered my weekly #COVIDー19 briefing in person after receiving news this morning that I tested Negative for Covid. I am grateful for all your support and prayers. We will win the Covid 19 fight in Ondo State,” he said. Akeredolu said he had not appointed a new commissioner for health for the state following the demise of former health commissioner who died of Coronavirus and also appealed to citizens to take responsible and stay safe from the pandemic. READ ALSO: Ondo Health Commissioner Dies Of COVID-19 He said, “As a mark of respect for the departed and as part of the mourning period, we have not appointed a new commissioner for Health. I have only approved that my Special Adviser on Health supervise the Ministry until we take further decision. “Let me use this opportunity to passionately appeal to all our people to please take the fight against COVID-19 seriously. Let us deliberately address our minds to implement all the precautionary measure pronounced and activated by Government. “A total of 20 people have lost their lives to the Virus while over 472 have tested positive to the infection. While the number of confirmed case have escalated, the number of discharged cases as at today is 113.”