The minister of aviation, Hadi Sirika on Tuesday said international flight operations may resumse earlier than October but that there was no fixed date yet. Sirika disclosed this via his official twitter handle on Tuesday, saying that the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) had only issued a routine notice to airmen. READ ALSO: Nigeria Suspends All International Flights He said, “International Flight resumption date is not October. NAMA just issued a routine 90 day Notices to Airmen (NOTAM).” Sirika added that an agreed date would be announced after deliberation between Health Ministry, Foreign Affairs ministry and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. “In liaison with Health, Foreign Affairs & PTF COVID-19, we will announce the agreed date, regardless of the ban by Europe, UAE etc. May be earlier than October”, Sirika said. READ ALSO: Domestic Flights To Resume July 8 Both local and international flights were suspended in the country since March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Local flight operations, however, resumed only in early July. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has asked Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godwill Akpabio, to name lawmaker who got contracts from Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) within 48 hours or face the wrath of the law. Akpabio, who appeared before House of Representativess committee probing allegations of corruption in the agency on Monday had said that lawmakers were the “greatest beneficiaries” of NDDC contracts. “Just look at your chairman, (Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo), I have records to show that most of the NDDC contracts were given out to the National Assembly members. The two chairmen of both committees can explain to you. READ ALSO: NDDC Probe: Drama As MD Slumps During Questioning “Who are even the greatest beneficiaries of the contracts? It’s you people at the National Assembly”, Akpabio said. Speaking on the house floor on Tuesday, however, Gbajabiamila, challenged Akpabio to “publish the names, contracts, date and unveil the companies of the 60 per cent projects that were given to the National Assembly members.” He said, “I’ve never once collected contracts from the NDDC and I know I can speak for many other members. “I hereby call on the minister to within 24-48 hours to publish the names, contracts, date and unveil the companies of the 60 per cent projects that were given to the National Assembly.” Gabajabiamila added that Akpabio’s failure to publish the names of lawmakers who got contracts from NDDC would have legal consequences. READ ALSO: Akpabio Appears Before House Committee Probing NDDC “Failing which, this house will bring the full wrath of the house on him. It is important that we set this record straight. “The minister owes it to himself, to the committee, to people of Niger Delta, and the country to publish it. I will reserve my judgement. The minister came there to play games, but we do not play games here”, Gbajabiamila said. Allegations of massive corruption in the NDDC have come to the fore in the past weeks as lawmakers probe into financial recklessness in the agencY.