The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday reported 463 new cases of COVID-19 in the country, the lowest number since July 8, 2020. At least 17 states across the country reported new cases while 10 new deaths were reported. A total number 33,616 cases have now been confirmed in Nigeria with 13,792 patients discharged from hospital and 754 deaths reported. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Can Spread Through Air – Chikwe Ihekweazu Lagos State recorded the highest number of new infections with 128, Kwara was far behind with 92 new cases. Enugu State reported the third highest number of new cases reporting 39. Delta State had 33 new infections, Edo State had 29 and Plateau State had two. In Kaduna State, there were 23 new cases, 15 in Oyo State, 14 each in Ogun and Osun states, 12 in Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and nine each in Ondo and Rivers states. Eight new cases were reported in Abia State, five in Bayelsa State, three in Ekiti State and two in Borno State. Fahim Saleh, Co-founder of Gokada and tech entrepreneur, is dead. Saleh’s decapitated and dismembered remains was found in a New York City apartment on Tuesday afternoon, according to New York Dailies. Saleh, 33, was suspected to be victim of a ‘professional killer’, with his body found next to an electric saw. “The limbless, headless torso of a millionaire tech entrepreneur was found inside his swanky Manhattan condo Tuesday afternoon — an electric saw lying next to the remains”, New York Dailies reported. Gokada, in a series of tweets on Wednesday, confirmed the demise of Saleh, adding that updates on changes would be communicated in due course. “We are deeply saddened to inform you about the sudden and tragic loss of our founder and CEO, Fahim Salem. Fahim was a great leader, inspiration and positive light for all of us. “Fahim’s vision and belief in us will be with us forever, and we will miss him dearly. Thank you for understanding as we get through this. “All updates and changes will be communicated with you, as it unfolds. Forever in our hearts”, the tweet read.