The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is committing as much as N12m for research proposals from academics from tertiary institutions on how to replace foreign technologies in specific areas in the telecommunications sector. While the Commission has set criteria for evaluating proposals, one key condition is that the project cost should not exceed a maximum of N12m. The NCC says it’s offering the research grant to support among other things, telecommunications-based innovations and research from tertiary institutions in the country that are practical, locally realizable and have clear potential of developing the telecommunications industry. The Commission’s invitation for proposals from academics in tertiary institutions seeks feasible research ideas, capable of replacing or enhancing foreign technologies in the telecommunications in Nigeria. The NCC said, “It is envisaged that the initiative will help build capacity in the tertiary institutions and promote Nigeria’s contribution to the pool of technologies in use in the communications industry.” The research areas expected to be covered include: Innovative clean energy Technology, 5G deployment in Nigeria, IoT Low Power Wide Area Network (WAN) Technology, Advanced method of Quality of Service (QoS)/Quality of Experience Management and test mechanism, and Monitoring and localisation of drones. According to the requirements set by NCC, “Uninterested researchers are required to submit their proposals which must: • Come from teaching Academics in Nigeria’s tertiary institutions; and • Have a one-page executive summary of the research proposal to include relevance of the research to the telecommunications industry, deliverables, novelty of concept, methodology, team experience, project timeline and detailed cost schedule” The Commission however set the criteria for the evaluation of the research submissions to include the following: “The area must fall within the specified areas of research, adherence of proposal to stated requirements above, novelty of research proposal (comprehensive literature review to bring out clearly the novelty of the research).” Others are clear statement and explanation of the problem, proposed solution to the problem, proposed approach and methodology, each project including prototype development must be concluded within 2 years and the project cost should not exceed a maximum of twelve million naira (N12,000,000.00) only. (the Commission reserves the right to review this maximum amount).” Also, any academic with a yet to be completed research project with the Commission SHOULD NOT apply. The total cost (including all costs) of the project must also be clearly stated and broken down in details, for which there can be no variation. According to the set conditions, there should be proof of concept (feasibility of idea with diagram, algorithm etc.) and clear relevance to the telecommunications industry and evidence of competence of team in executing the project (include past work and CVs of team members). The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 575 new cases of COVID-19 in the country with the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) alone recording 100 cases. There are now 29,286 confirmed cases of the disease in the country, 11,828 patients discharged and 654 deaths according to the NCDC update released on Monday. Lagos, which recorded 123 new cases now has 11,367 confirmed cases while the FCT has 2,281. READ ALSO: FCTA Seals Off Jabi Lake Mall Indefinitely Over Naira Marley’s Concert Delta State reported 58 new cases and has a total of 1,285 confirmed cases, while Edo State with 52 new cases now has 1,435 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease. Ogun State reported 42 new cases. Katsina State had 24, Bayelsa State had 23, Rivers State had 22, Borno State had 19, Plateau State and Ondo State reported 18 new cases each. Cases in Oyo State dropped from previous highs in the last few days to 17, while in Kwara State, 15 new cases were recorded. There were 13 cases in Osun State, nine in Enugu State, seven in Nasarawa State, six in Abia State, five in Cross River State, three in Kaduna State and one in Ekiti State.