The abducted former Senator, who represented Taraba North in the National Assembly, Senator Zik Sunday, has regained his freedom. Family sources said Sunday was released from his abductors in the early hours of Thursday from a bush in Awai, Nasarawa State at about 1:20am. An immediate relative to the ex-Senator who pleaded anonymity said N20m was paid as ransom to the abductors before his release. “Praise be to God for the release, a huge sum of N20 million was paid as ransom to his Kidnappers. We was released in the wee hours of the day. “The 75 years old former Senator Zik Sunday is in good health and has since been reunited with his family,” said the source. Recalled that the police public relations officer, Taraba command, DSP David Misal, had confirmed the kidnapping of Senator Zik Sunday on Monday 6 July, 2020 while briefing journalists at the Command’s headquarters in Jalingo. The Federal Executive Council on Wednesday reviewed the $18.12million port scanner installation projects to incorporate Value Added Tax. The initial approval, which was done in 2018, did not include VAT, according to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed. The projects have an added N3.2bn local component. READ ALSO: FG Projects N12.6trn Budget For 2021 The scanners are to be installed at Onne, Port Harcourt and Tin Can ports to help the Nigerian Customs Service to fast-track container inspection and generate accurate revenue for the Federation. “This contract is awarded to a company that is named Messrs Airwave limited, and the contract is in the sum of $18.12m of foreign component. There is also local component of N3. 255bn, inclusive of five per cent VAT. “The review became necessary in order to accommodate VAT, which was not included in the initial contract and also due to a dispute that we had arisen from exchange rate differential. “So we have now a resolution and an understanding and FEC approval for this contract to go on. “The scanners are designed to aid effective revenue collection, with features that will screen for narcotics, weapons and undeclared items. They can also detect arms and ammunition, illegal importation and possession of arms and light weapons in Nigeria. READ ALSO: FG Budgets N1.6bn For 2nd Abuja Runway “The scanners will obviate the need for physical examination of goods and fast-track the trade business report. This contract is for the Nigerian Customs Service”, Ahmed told State House Correspondents after the FEC meeting. A second approval for the customs was the sum of N288.9million for the “supply of five ballistic assault boats and five patrol boats with all associated accessories.” The contract was awarded to Messre CY West African limited. “The Nigerian Customs Service needs these boats to enhance its operational efficiency and combat smuggling activities on our waterways. “This will also significantly boost revenue collection and other core duties of maritime unit of the Nigerian Customs Service” she added.