As part of its revised framework, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said consumer complaints relating to internet services must be resolved by telecommunications companies within a period of 72 hours. NCC’s Executive Vice Chairman, Professor Umar Danbatta said the Commission would no longer tolerate  the failure of service providers to address issues relating to consumer complaints, vowing to sanction erring operators. The Commission said the new framework would ensure effectiveness in the sector and as well strengthens protection of telecoms consumers. Danbatta said, “In the reviewed CC/SLA, with respect to the broad category of Quality of Service and Quality of Experience (QoS and QoE) in the data segment, when a telecom subscriber experiences fluctuation in service, such as instability in the Internet services, the subscriber shall be contacted by the service provider within four hours of reporting the incident and the disruption shall be restored within 72 hours. ”If the matter is escalated to the Commission, the consumer is expected to receive feedback within two hours, while the Commission ensures the issue is resolved within 48 hours. Additionally,  the subscriber shall be offered an apology and the expiry date of his data bundle shall be extended by the number of days the disruption lasted,” he noted. He said under the broad category, ‘Billing’, complaints connected to any unexplained change in account balance resulting in a drop in balance, due to overcharging subscriber’s account for calls, Short Messaging Services (SMS) and Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS), shall be resolved by the operator within 24 hours. Again, should there be a need by the subscriber to escalate the complaint to NCC, the Commission shall ensure the matter is resolved within 12 hours, while the subscriber shall be notified of resolution and where applicable, compensated with five percent of overcharged amount which is payable daily to the consumer for every 24 hours of default. He noted that the 2019 review of the CC/SLA, was in collaboration with operators and other stakeholders. He argued that it was essentially to strengthen effective and prompt resolutions of consumers’ complaints. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has told the former Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, that he can’t sell a bad candidate to Edo people in the forthcoming governorship election, slated for September 19, 2020. In a statement on Friday by Paulinus Nsirim, Commissioner for Information and Communications, Rivers State, Wike, who is the  Chairman of the PDP Edo State Governorship Campaign Council, said that Oshiomhole during campaign previous election in the state, had labelled Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the Edo State Governorship candidate of the APC a bad product. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Governor Wike To Head Obaseki’s Campaign He therefore told Oshiomhole that he couldn’t sell that same bad product to the good and discerning people of Edo State. “Adams Oshiomhole told Edo people that Ize Iyamu was rusticated from school; that he poured acid on a fellow student that destroyed his manhood. That he is an armed robber that cannot be trusted with money. Such a character cannot be accepted by Edo people as Governor during the election. “I respect the Benin tradition and I know that Edo people are educated to know that Oshiomhole cannot play on their intelligence. If he is now retracting what he said of Ize Iyamu, who is sure that he’s saying the correct thing now. “Adams Oshiomhole’s sudden u-turn is a great insult on Edo people. This is an opportunity for Edo people both at home and in the diaspora to use their votes to tell Oshiomole that they cannot take his lies anymore. READ ALSO: I Don’t Need A Godfather To Win – Ize-Iyamu “From all indications, it is obvious that there is no strong opposition against Obaseki and he will win convincingly, ” Wike said. He added that the description of Pastor Ize-Iyamu as a bad product which could not be sold to Edo people, by the former APC national Chairman had already enhanced the PDP and Governor Godwin Obaseki’s campaign immensely. “It makes it easy for the governor to now concentrate his campaign on issues of governance and his numerous achievements in the last four years. Sadly, Pastor Ize-Iyamu has nothing to offer Edo people, except the empty promises, which even Oshiomhole has dismissed by telling the world that Ize-Iyamu lies too much,” he said. Wike appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari, to leave a lasting democratic legacy behind, by ensuring that the Edo State gubernatorial election is free and fair and devoid of the intimidation and threatened subversion of the electoral laws.