President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday sent condolences to the family of Tolulope Arotile, Nigeria’s first and only female combat helicopter pilot, who died on Tuesday. Arotile, who hails from Iffe in Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State, died in an auto-crash at NAF Base Kaduna on Tuesday. In a condolence message signed by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President Media and Publicity, the president described Arotile as a promising officer whose has bravely contributed to the war against bandits and terrorist in the country. The statement reads, “President Muhammadu Buhari received with deep pain the passing of Flying Officer, Tolulope Arotile, condoling with the family on loss of such a promising officer, whose short stay on earth impacted greatly on the nation, especially in peace and security. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s First And Only Female Combat Helicopter Pilot Dies In An Auto-crash President Buhari saluted Arotile for her bravery and skills in manoeuvring combat helicopters, and prayed that the Lord would comfort her family and the Nigerian Airforce. “The President salutes Arotile’s bravery in the field to protect the country from onslaught of bandits and terrorists, assuring that her memory will be indelible, and her efforts remembered. “President Buhari commiserates with the Nigerian Air Force, airmen, airwomen and all friends of the deceased, recalling her deft skills in manoeuvring combat helicopters, which he had physically witnessed with pride. “The President sympathises with government and people of Kogi State on the loss. President Buhari prays that the Almighty God will receive the soul of the departed, and comfort the family she left behind”, the statement read. Footage from a surveillance Camera has revealed that Fahim Saleh, Co-founder of Gokada and tech entrepreneur, was trailed by a masked man before he was murdered. Saleh, whose decapitated and dismembered remains were found in a New York City apartment on Tuesday, was 33 years old. “One of the law enforcement officials said a surveillance camera had captured video of Mr. Saleh in the building’s elevator with another person who was wearing a black suit and black mask. “On the video, the elevator door opens and Mr. Saleh goes into the apartment, the official said. The masked person follows directly behind him, and the two immediately start to struggle. READ ALSO: GOKADA Nigeria CEO, Fahim Saleh Murdered “The sister is seen on the video arriving a short time later. There is a second way out of the apartment through a service entrance, New York Times reported. Gokada, in a series of tweets on Wednesday, confirmed the demise of Saleh, adding that updates on changes would be communicated in due course. “We are deeply saddened to inform you about the sudden and tragic loss of our founder and CEO, Fahim Salem. Fahim was a great leader, inspiration and positive light for all of us. “All updates and changes will be communicated with you, as it unfolds. Forever in our hearts”, the tweet read.