With more than 500 new cases being reported daily, the number confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria is now days away from hitting the 40,000 mark. On Thursday, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reported 604 new cases of the Coronavirus disease taking the total number of confirmed cases to 38,948. The NCDC update also shows 16,061 patients have been discharged hospitals while 833 deaths have been reported. READ ALSO: 801 Nigerians Dead From COVID-19 Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 203, followed by Oyo, which reported 87 cases. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) recorded 79 new cases, Edo State reported 41, Osun State had 35, Ogun State had 24, while Rivers and Kaduna states had 22 new cases each. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Cases Hit 35,454 In Akwa Ibom State there were 20 new cases, 18 in Plateau State, nine each in Delta and Ebonyi states, eight Imo State and five each in Enugu, Kano and Cross River states. There were four new cases in Katsina, three in Nasarawa, two each in Borno and Ekiti, and one in Bauchi. The Minster of Communications and Digutal Economy, Dr. Isah Pantami, has launched the Kaduna Emergency Communication Centre (ECC) built by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), along five Information Technology projects by other agencies under his ministry. The NCC’s ECC project makes it possible for people of Kaduna and environs to dial 112 Emergency Number to get help during emergencies from appropriate emergency response agencies and is aimed at supporting the Federal Government agenda of enhancing security of lives and property in the country. NCC had built ECC in each of the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Nineteen of the ECC have been activated while efforts are ongoing to extend it to other states. READ ALSO: NCC Sets New Rules On Financial Records Submission In Telecoms Industry The Minister also commissioned the Tertiary Institution Knowledge Centre (TIKC) in Enugu State Polytechnic, Iwollo executed by the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF) of NCC. Three other projects by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), IT Community Centre in Katsina and IT Hub each in Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria Main Campus, Kaduna and University of Lagos, were also commissioned. The sixth project commissioned was the opening of Nigeria Communication Satellite (NIGCOMSAT)’s Northwest Regional Office in Kaduna. READ ALSO: NCC Prepares Nigeria For The Internet Of Things Speaking during the virtual commissioning of the projects, which took place at the NCC’s Communications and Digital Economy Complex, Mbora District, Abuja on Thursday, July 23, 2020 and attended by all heads of agencies under the ministry, Pantami said the projects were all connected to the country’s digital economy drive, as contained in the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) unveiled by the President in November last year. According to him, “These projects are connected to some of the pillars of the NDEPS, especially with respect to developmental regulation, digital literacy and skills, solid infrastructure, among others,” urging Nigerians, who are the ultimate beneficiaries of the projects, to take advantage of the opportunities. He added that he would continue to work with other ministries, departments and parastatals of government to ensure teething challenges facing ICT infrastructure deployment in the country are addressed in other to deepen digital economy. READ ALSO: NCC Resolves More Than 25,000 Complaints In 15 Months Governor of Borno State and Chairman of the occasion, Babagana Zulum; as well as the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed and her counterpart in the Ministry of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola who were guests of honour commended the ministry and its agencies for expanding the footprint of digital economy across the country. Meanwhile, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, and other heads of agencies under the Ministry, have commended the Minister for promoting synergy among the agencies under his supervision. According to Danbatta, “the projects will help in leading the country into a truly- digital economy.” He restated the Commission’s commitment to ensure a robust broadband infrastructure in the country, to support government’s initiatives aimed at accelerating the implementation of National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy.