The Commissioner of  Health in Ondo State Dr. Wahab Adegbenro, is dead. He is reported to have died of COVID-19 after being sick for some days. Adegbenro died at a treatment centre for the coronavirus disease in Akure, the state capital on Thursday. The state governor Rotimi Akeredolu announced on Tuesday that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and ordered his entire cabinet to get tested for the virus. READ ALSO: Ondo Governor Tests Positive For COVID-19 He has since been in isolation and according to him, has remained asymptomatic. Ondo has recorded 65 cases of COVID-19 in the last two days and has a total of 325 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease. The Dubai Police has extradited popular Nigerian Instagram celebrity, Raymond Igbalode Abbas, also known as “Hushpuppi” and Olalekan Jacob Ponle aka “Woodberry” to the US to face prosecution. Dubai Police General Headquarter said Hushpuppi had been handed over to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in a statement on its social media page on Thursday. The statement reads, “FBI thanks Dubai Police for arresting and extraditing “Hushpuppi” and “Woodberry”. The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Christopher Wray has praised the exceptional efforts exerted by the United Arab Emirate, represented by the Dubai Police General HQ, in combating transnational organised cybercrime including the recent arrest of Raymond Igbalode Abbas, known as “Hushpuppi” and Olalekan Jacob Ponle aka “Woodberry” who were taken down in operation “Fox Hunt 2”. “Recently, the Dubai Police has arrested the two wanted fraudsters, “Hushpuppi” and “Woodberry” along with ten African cybercriminals in a special operation dubbed “Fox Hunt 2”. “The operation took down the suspects for committing crimes outside the UAE, including money-laundering, cyber fraud, hacking, criminal impersonating, scamming individuals, banking fraud and identity theft. “The director of Dubai CID, Brigadier Jamal Salem Al Jallaf said the raid resulted in confiscating incriminating documents of a planned fraud on a global scale worth AED 1.6 billion ($ 435 million). “The team also seized more than AED 150 million ($40.9 million) in cash, 13 luxury cars with an estimated value of AED 25 million ($6.8 million) obtained from fraud crimes, and confiscated 21 computer devices, 47 smartphones, 15 memory sticks, five hard disks containing 119,580 fraud files as well as addresses of 1,926,400 victims”.