The Federal Executive Council on Wednesday reviewed the $18.12million port scanner installation projects to incorporate Value Added Tax. The initial approval, which was done in 2018, did not include VAT, according to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed. The projects have an added N3.2bn local component. READ ALSO: FG Projects N12.6trn Budget For 2021 The scanners are to be installed at Onne, Port Harcourt and Tin Can ports to help the Nigerian Customs Service to fast-track container inspection and generate accurate revenue for the Federation. “This contract is awarded to a company that is named Messrs Airwave limited, and the contract is in the sum of $18.12m of foreign component. There is also local component of N3. 255bn, inclusive of five per cent VAT. “The review became necessary in order to accommodate VAT, which was not included in the initial contract and also due to a dispute that we had arisen from exchange rate differential. “So we have now a resolution and an understanding and FEC approval for this contract to go on. “The scanners are designed to aid effective revenue collection, with features that will screen for narcotics, weapons and undeclared items. They can also detect arms and ammunition, illegal importation and possession of arms and light weapons in Nigeria. READ ALSO: FG Budgets N1.6bn For 2nd Abuja Runway “The scanners will obviate the need for physical examination of goods and fast-track the trade business report. This contract is for the Nigerian Customs Service”, Ahmed told State House Correspondents after the FEC meeting. A second approval for the customs was the sum of N288.9million for the “supply of five ballistic assault boats and five patrol boats with all associated accessories.” The contract was awarded to Messre CY West African limited. “The Nigerian Customs Service needs these boats to enhance its operational efficiency and combat smuggling activities on our waterways. “This will also significantly boost revenue collection and other core duties of maritime unit of the Nigerian Customs Service” she added. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved a Youth Investment Fund in the value of N75bn. The FEC gave the approval at Wednesday’s 8th virtual session presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. It’s a ‘youth bank’ to support Nigerian youths with entrepreneurial skills, according to the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare. The country has an estimated 68million youth population in the age bracket of 18 to 35 years. READ ALSO: How We ‘ll Spend N2.3trn COVID-19 Stimulus Funds – FG Dare, who spoke with State House Correspondents after the meeting, explained that access to the fund would be through the 125 micro credit banks in the country. He added that the criteria for accessing the funds by those with the requisite qualifications would be set out accordingly. He added that the process would be digitalised like the existing N-Power programme for fresh graduates. READ ALSO: States To Receive $1.5bn World Bank Stimulus By September Dare gave details, “For the first time in the history of Nigeria, the Federal Executive Council today approved the establishment of the Nigerian Youth Investment Fund (NYIF) to the tune of N75bn. “This fund is meant to create a special window for accessing credit facilities and financing on the part of our youths that will help to fund their ideas, innovations and also support their enterprise. “The best way to call it is that for the first time the country will have a youth bank. A fund that will cater specifically for our youth within the stipulated age band, which is going to be between 18 and 35 years. “The second approval secured was for the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to play a lead role in working on necessary steps that need to be taken in terms of legislation, organisation and other aspects of financing. “The Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning will take the lead when it comes to the aspect of financing, working with the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and other relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies. “A couple of other details will be released later, but I think the most important thing is that the N75bn NYIF, to cater specifically for this target group, a population of over 68 million, got the attention and support of the FEC today and this fund will be assessed by our youths, once they are able to present their ideas, they can assess this fund directly.”