Two top universities in the United States of America, Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on Wednesday sued the government of Donald Trump over its guidance not allowing foreign students to take online-only courses in the country starting from the September semester. Harvard had announced earlier in the  week that all course instructions would be delivered online, including for students living on campus. CNN quoted the university as saying the guidance would to affect some 5,000 international students. “The order came down without notice, its cruelty surpassed only by its recklessness. It appears that it was designed purposefully to place pressure on colleges and universities to open their on-campus classrooms for in-person instruction this fall, without regard to concerns for the health and safety of students, instructors, and others,” Harvard University President Larry Bacow said. READ ALSO: US Asks Foreign Students On Online Classes To Leave Visa requirements for students have always been strict and coming to the US to take online-only courses has been prohibited. Immigration and Customs Enforcement maintained that prohibition in its guidance, while providing some flexibility for hybrid models, meaning a mix of online and in-person classes. The agency suggested that students currently enrolled in the US consider other measures, like transferring to schools with in-person instruction. The lawsuit, filed in the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts, seeks to block the directive, arguing it violates the Administrative Procedures Act. The universities argue that ICE’s decision not to provide an exemption for online-only courses puts them in an “untenable situation” of either proceeding with their plans to operate fully or largely online or attempt to provide in-person learning. The Federal Government has temporarily cancelled this year’s secondary schools leaving exams conducted by the West African Examination Council. The government has also reversed course on the planned resumption of school for students in their last years of primary, junior secondary and senior secondary schools. The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, said on Wednesday that the government was willing to sacrifice one year of academic calendar to protect students from the coronavirus. READ ALSO: FG Announces Date For WAEC Exams He was speaking shortly after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari. Schools, he said would not reopen any time soon until it is safe to open them. The WAEC exams were originally meant to hold in May but couldn’t because of the outbreak of the coronavirus and were later scheduled to hold between August 5 and September 4. Mr. Adamu said the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) couldn’t be the one determining factor for the government when schools in the country should reopen, adding that he would prefer students lose one academic year, than expose them to COVID-19.