The British High Commission has announced that it’s working to reopen its visa application centre in Nigeria British High Commission visa application centres have been closed globally since the outbreak of COVID-19. In a statement shared via its official twitter handle on Thursday, British High Commission said UK visa application centres were reopening in a phased manner globally and it is working to reopen the one in Nigeria. The statement read, “We know there are many Nigerian nationals hoping to be able to travel to the UK when flights resume, both for employment and to see family members. UKVI are working closely with TLS Contact, our commercial partner, to reopen visa application centre services that were suspended due to COVID-19. The Commission said it was working with its partner to reopen in Nigeria, adding that details of visa application centre will be communicated soon. “UK visa application centres are reopening in a phased manner globally, when it is safe to do so and when we can operate an effective service. “TLS Contact are putting appropriate measures in place and working hard to reopen in Nigeria. We will share the details of when VACs will reopen soon”, the statement read. President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to sign the revised 2020 Appropriation Bill on Friday according to a statement from the office of the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan. Quoting the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, the statement released by the Special Assistant to the Senate President, Ezrel Tabiowo, said the government would stick to the January-December budget cycle and as such, the President will on Friday sign the revised N10.8trn budget for the year 2020 into law. The minister was reportedly briefing the principal officers of the National Assembly, which included the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. READ ALSO: How We ‘ll Spend N2.3trn COVID-19 Stimulus Funds – FG She said, “This for us is a journey towards ensuring that the progress that we have made as a collective to return the fiscal year to January – December is maintained for the 2021 budget as well. The President has directed that we must deliver the budget to the National Assembly by the end of September.” She said the government’s revenue between January and May 2020 was N1.48 trn, an amount representing 56 per cent of the target. READ ALSO: COVID-19: FG Seeks Upfront Tax Payments From Corporations She said oil revenues accounted for N701.6 bn; non-oil tax revenues N439.32bn; Companies Income Tax (CIT) and Value Added Tax (VAT) collections – N213.24bn and N68.09bn; and Customs collection N158bn, respectively. Other revenues, she said amounted to N339.51bn, of which Independent revenues was N80.22bn. Recoveries and Stamp duty collected during the period are yet to be booked in the fiscal accounts.