Federal Government and West African Examination Council (WAEC) have again changed the period for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) to hold The examinations, originally scheduled to start on August 24, will now begin  on September 5, 2020. The Minister of State for Education, Honourable Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, announced the change of dates on Friday. READ ALSO: FG Stops WAEC, Reverses Course On School Resumption He said the changes came after a meeting between the Federal Government and officials of WAEC. He said school owners in the country had until July 29, 2020 to meet specific guidelines towards the reopening of schools at a date to be announced in due course. The minister was quoted in a statement by the Director of Information, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr. Ben Bem Goong, to have asked schools to undertake self-assessment and send feedback to state Ministries of Education, not later than July 29, 2020. He said, “Thereafter, consultations with relevant stakeholders will be held to review the situation and decide on a specific date for reopening or otherwise. READ ALSO: Schools To Resume August In Southwest “We have consulted widely with stakeholders in the sector, including Commissioners of Education in all the states of the federation, the Association of Private School Owners of Nigeria,(APSON), National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools,(NAPPS), Provosts of Colleges of Education, Rectors of Polytechnics, Vice-Chancellors of Universities, some State Governors, and development partners.” He said, “On WAEC, we met with WAEC on Monday and have agreed to further consult with four other countries on new examination date. We appreciate the concern shown by all stakeholders and note the divergent views expressed on the matter. “Parents should be rest assured that the safety of our students and teachers is paramount as we work assiduously towards the speedy reopening of our schools for the exit classes to take external examinations.” The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria have now reached 35,454 rising by 600 new cases on Friday. An update by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) showed that the new cases were reported in 20 states. 14,633 patients have so far been discharged while the number of recorded deaths has risen to 772. Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 129 and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had the second highest number with 118. Oyo State was third with 87 new cases, Kano State reported 55 cases, while Benue State had 42. Enugu State had 35 new cases, Kwara State had 28, Imo State had 16, Ogun State had 13, Kaduna and Ondo states had 12 each, while Delta and Edo states had 11 each. Plateau State reported eight new cases, Nasarawa, Ekiti and Niger states had six each, while Borno and Abia states had four each. Gombe State had three new cases.