The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, on Wednesday ridiculed a member of House of Representatives, James Faleke, saying Faleke is a “small boy”. Ngige has reportedly suspended top management and executive committee members of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), though the presidential directive bars ministers from sacking heads of agencies. Appearing before the Adhoc Committee of the House of Representatives over an alleged breach of a presidential directive, Ngige called Faleke “a small boy” and said he was mate with “Tinubu, Faleke’s political mentor. He said, “I am at least seven years older than you. I’m sure. I am the same age as your mentor in Lagos, Asiwaju (Bola Ahmed Tinubu). And I was Governor with him at the same time. He was a Senator, I was a Senator. I am a two-time Minister, he isn’t a two-time Minister.” Faleke cuts in, mocking Ngige for his past electoral failure. He said “But he won all his elections very well.” Ngige fired back and reminded Faleke of how the Supreme Court decision cost Faleke his chance to be Kogi State’s governor, adding that Faleke was a “small Mushin boy”. “No problem about that. Just like you won your own in Kogi State very well and you are now both the Governor and Deputy Governor. “If you yab me, I yab you. I’m a Lagos boy. You are just a small boy in Lagos. Look at this Mushin boy, talking to a Victoria Island boy. I live in Victoria Island.” Boko Haram has posted a video on social media showing the execution from five humanitarian workers who were believed to have been kidnapped as far back as June 29, 2020 while on their way to Monguna, from Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. The video lasting just over half a minute showed masked men executing the aide workers after an unidentified voice of one the terrorists, speaking in in Hausa accused them of working with the infidels. The Boko Haram fighter said, “This is a strong message to those who are being used by unbelievers to convert people to infidels…those who are working for the organisations of disbelievers. “You work for them to achieve their goals but they do not care about you that is the reason when we abducted you, they showed no care. We are calling on you to repent and turn to God. “For those of you remaining, we will surely get you… we know the routes you follow. If you do not desist, you’ll end just like these people too.”