President Muhammadu Buhari has again warned political appointees and other government officials against using their positions to bestow undue advantage on anyone seeking government jobs and other favours. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in a statement signed by Segun Adeyemi, his special assistant on media, said that President Buhari’s repeated warning followed persistent reports of fraudsters using the business cards and purported referral letters from presidential aides and other government officials to solicit employment, contract and other favours. Mohammed said the president had warned ministries, departments and agencies of the government to disregard calls aiming to influence, lobby or confer undue advantage on anyone from government officials, adding that it is “antithetical to the character of the Administration.” “Ministries, Departments and Agencies should disregard any purported request from government officials aiming to confer undue advantage on anyone seeking such favours. “He said the Administration has put in place a systematic and disciplined approach to ensure that the government runs smoothly for all Nigerians, whether in the area of employment or contract procurement. ”This system should be allowed to work for all Nigerians without interference,” Mohammed said. Delta State governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, his wife and daughter have tested positive for COVID-19. Okowa, who had earlier gone into self isolation after one of his daughter tested positive for coronavirus last week, disclosed this in a tweet on Wednesday. He said he, his wife and daughter were in isolation in line with the guidelines for treating coronavirus. “My wife and I have tested positive for COVID-19. We are well and continuing with our isolation/medication. We thank you all for your continued prayers for us and our daughter”, Okowa said. Okowa is the sixth serving Nigerian governor to be infected with COVID-19. Five other state governors who have tested positive for COVID-19 include; Bala Mohammed, Governor of Bauchi State; Nasir El-Rufai, the governor of Kaduna State, Seyi Makinde, Governor of Oyo State, Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State. According to Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Delta State has recorded 965 cases, discharged 190 patients and recorded 23 deaths so far. Nigeria has recorded  25, 694 cases of Coronavirus, 590 deaths and 9,746 recoveries since the first index case was reported in the country.