The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, has tested negative for COVID-19 after six days in isolation. Akaredolu, who tested positive for the virus last week, made this announcement via his twitter handle on Monday. READ ALSO: Ondo Governor Tests Positive For COVID-19 “Today I delivered my weekly #COVIDー19 briefing in person after receiving news this morning that I tested Negative for Covid. I am grateful for all your support and prayers. We will win the Covid 19 fight in Ondo State,” he said. Akeredolu said he had not appointed a new commissioner for health for the state following the demise of former health commissioner who died of Coronavirus and also appealed to citizens to take responsible and stay safe from the pandemic. READ ALSO: Ondo Health Commissioner Dies Of COVID-19 He said, “As a mark of respect for the departed and as part of the mourning period, we have not appointed a new commissioner for Health. I have only approved that my Special Adviser on Health supervise the Ministry until we take further decision. “Let me use this opportunity to passionately appeal to all our people to please take the fight against COVID-19 seriously. Let us deliberately address our minds to implement all the precautionary measure pronounced and activated by Government. “A total of 20 people have lost their lives to the Virus while over 472 have tested positive to the infection. While the number of confirmed case have escalated, the number of discharged cases as at today is 113.” African richest man, Aliko Dangote, has refuted rumours that he endorsed incumbent governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, for a second term. Anthony Chiejina, the Group Chief Corporate Communications Officer of the Dangote Group, in a statement on Sunday said reports claiming Dangote had endorsed Obaseki were false and should be disregarded, adding that Dangote has no candidate in the forthcoming Edo governorship election. “Our attention has been drawn to an online publication titled ‘Edo Guber: Dangote endorses Godwin Obaseki for second tenure’. READ ALSO: Obaseki Joins PDP, Eyes Governorship Ticket “This is the first time that I have seen people publicly campaign for electoral office using the name of my Boss and I have to stop it immediately so that others will not try it in future. “The said interview allegedly granted by Aliko Dangote in Abuja is an outright falsehood, a malicious, irresponsible and mischievous act aimed at tarnishing my boss’s reputation. Aliko Dangote has not travelled out of Lagos since March 19, 2020. “In fact, he said he has not crossed the Lagos Third Mainland Bridge since that date. His name and personality should not be drawn into any political campaign, Chiejina said. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Governor Wike To Head Obaseki’s Campaign While urging the public to disregard reports associating Dangote’s name and brand with partisan politics, Chiejina said Dangote is focused on development, job creation and philanthropy and not partisan, Chiejina said, “Aliko Dangote is an entrepreneur and business leader whose focus is on development, job creation and philanthropy. He has not endorsed anyone for electoral positions in Edo or any other state of Nigeria. “We caution the public to ignore claims from any quarter that associate the Dangote name or brand with partisan politics.” Edo governorship election is scheduled to hold on September 19 according to Independent Electoral Commission (INEC).