The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, has commiserated with the family of late Alhaji Ismaila Isa Funtua, publisher, industrialist and founder of Bullet International Nigeria Limited, who passed on at 78 in Abuja on Monday, July 20, 2020. A statement from NCC’s director of public affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde said Danbatta, alongside some staff of the Commission paid a condolence visit to the family at the residence of late Funtua on Tuesday, July 21, 2020 in Abuja. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Ismaila Isa Funtua Is Dead The NCC boss was quoted as describing  the late Funtua “as an industrialist, a loyal and trusted ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, whose accomplishments have left indelible marks in critical sectors of the economy.” He said, “I received the passing of Alhaji Funtua with a heavy heart. He was a complete and compassionate gentleman and a true Nigerian patriot, who showed great interest in the progress of our dear country.” READ ALSO: Isa Funtua’s Death Has Created Huge Gap – Buhari “I share the grief of his immediate family, associates as well as President Buhari. We pray for the peaceful repose of his soul and that Almighty God will grant his family the fortitude to bear the loss,” he said. Danbatta was received by Abubakar Isa, one of the deceased’s sons during the visit. The Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, has tested positive for Coronavirus. Fayemi, who has now gone into self isolation, disclosed this in a tweet on Wednesday, adding that he had delegated critical task to his deputy. He said had done two tests in the past which came back negative. However, the third test he took yesterday came back positive. READ ALSO: I Got COVID-19 In Abuja. Kano, Katsina Now Big Risks – Nasir El-Rufai Fayemis said, “I took my third Covid-19 test yesterday and it came back positive. I’m generally ok and I’m already self isolating at home and receiving the best of care from my medical team. I’m delegating critical tasks to my Deputy but will continue routine duty from home.” Fayemi is the seventh serving Nigerian governor to contract COVID-19. READ ALSO: Abia Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu Tests Positive For COVID-19 Six other state governors who have tested positive for COVID-19 include; Bala Mohammed, Governor of Bauchi State; Nasir El-Rufai, the governor of Kaduna State, Seyi Makinde, Governor of Oyo State, Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State, Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State. According to Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Ekiti State has recorded 86 cases, discharged 47 patients and recorded 2 deaths so far. READ ALSO: Okowa, Wife And Daughter Test Positive For COVID-19 Nigeria has recorded 37,801 cases of Coronavirus, 805 deaths and 15,677 recoveries since the first index case was reported in the country.