Alhaji Adamu Mu’azu Modibbo, an Adamawa politician and former director general of PENCOM is dead. Modibbo, who was a close political associate of Atiku Abubakar, was a former gubernatorial candidate of All Peoples Party (APP) in Adamawa. A source told The Interview the politician died Sunday at about 4:00pm in Yola at Adamawa/German hospital after a brief illness. “Before he was taken to hospital, he told us that he was taking malaria and typhoid treatment. But when the fever got higher, we took him to a hospital from where he was referred to the German hospital. He recorded tremendous improvement yesterday and even took a stroll outside the hospital from the VIP 3 ward where he was admitted. But he died today at about 4:00pm possibly from heart failure,” the source said. A relative, Mallam Abdullahi Njidda Damare, also confirmed his death. “I regret to announce the death of Alhaji Adamu Mu’azu. May his gentle soul rest in perfect peace,” he said. Modibbo is survived by two wives and many children. Garba Shehu, senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, has said that Nigerians should prepared for surprises in the outcome of the probe of Ibrahim Magu, the suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Magu, who was arrested and detained for 10 days, faced a presidential panel headed by Justice Ayo Salami, former president of the Appeal Court. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Buhari Suspends EFCC Boss, Ibrahim Magu Speaking on Channels TV politics Today on Sunday, Shehu said the findings of the panel would surprise Nigerians, adding that he would not pre-empt the panel. “I am not going to pre-empt the panel investigation but I just advise Nigerians to hold their hearts in their hands. “By the time they are done with this job and they come out with the reports prepare yourselves for surprises. “I don’t know what will come out but if the sense we are getting from what is being done over there is anything to go by, I think that Nigerians should not be confused by any outbursts by anybody”, Garba said. READ ALSO: Ibrahim Magu Finally Granted Bail Before now the presidency had said Magu was suspended to allow unhindered investigation into a series of documented allegations were made against him. It also said that added that Magu was being availed the opportunity to defend himself and answer the allegations against him.