Delta State governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, his wife and daughter have tested positive for COVID-19. Okowa, who had earlier gone into self isolation after one of his daughter tested positive for coronavirus last week, disclosed this in a tweet on Wednesday. He said he, his wife and daughter were in isolation in line with the guidelines for treating coronavirus. “My wife and I have tested positive for COVID-19. We are well and continuing with our isolation/medication. We thank you all for your continued prayers for us and our daughter”, Okowa said. Okowa is the sixth serving Nigerian governor to be infected with COVID-19. Five other state governors who have tested positive for COVID-19 include; Bala Mohammed, Governor of Bauchi State; Nasir El-Rufai, the governor of Kaduna State, Seyi Makinde, Governor of Oyo State, Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State. According to Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Delta State has recorded 965 cases, discharged 190 patients and recorded 23 deaths so far. Nigeria has recorded  25, 694 cases of Coronavirus, 590 deaths and 9,746 recoveries since the first index case was reported in the country. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has inaugurated two inter-agency committees with the mandate to review, collate, commission and communicate in local languages Information and Communication Technology (ICT) projects implemented for Nigerians under President Muhammadu Buhari. The two ministerial committees which are Completed Projects Review Committee and Committee on Media Engagement in Local Languages are chaired by Ayuba Shuaibu, Executive Secretary, Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF) and Dr. Usman Gambo Abdullahi, Director, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) respectively. Present at the inauguration were the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, Kasifu Abdullah, Director General, NITDA; and Dr. Abimbola Alale, Managing Director, NIGCOMSAT. Membership of the committees are drawn from all the five agencies supervised by the Ministry including NCC, NITDA, Galaxy Backbone, NIGCOMSAT and NIPOST. Pantami stated that while the Ministry and the agencies had successfully complemented a number of projects across the geo-political zones in the country which have great benefits to Nigerians, the existence of these projects have not been sufficiently communicated to the public in our local languages. Pantami said during the inauguration that “there has not been so much awareness creation on the presence of these projects among Nigerians who are the ultimate beneficiaries.” He said the responsibility of the Ministerial Committee on Completed Projects Review and Commissioning was to collate all the laudable  projects and then organise a virtual commissioning in order to bring them to the consciousness of Nigerians. On the responsibility of the Ministerial Committee Media Engagement in Nigerian Languages, Pantami said the committee would work to ensure awareness creation about the projects, their locations and benefits to Nigerians using local languages such as Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba and Fulfude spoken in the zone where the projects are sited.