The Taraba State Command of the Department of State Security Services, (DSS) on Friday paraded 45-year-old Ishaya Adamu Jonathan for parading himself as a very senior officer of the service and defrauding people in Gombe, Adamawa and Taraba states. The Taraba State Director of the Department of State Security Service, Alhaji Bashir Abubakar, while briefing journalists in Jalingo said Ishaya Adamu Jonathan was arrested in Ambairi hotel along Donga road in Jalingo, the state capital. He noted that the suspect was hiding in the hotel with his wife who was discovered to have married with deceit. The Taraba State Assistant State Director of the Department of State Security Service, S.A Balogun, who represented the state Director said that Ishaya had deceived the public that he had undergone several operations for the service which he claimed earned him accelerated promotion to the rank of Assistant Director. He said Ishaya lied to his victims including his wife that he was recently transferred from Gombe to Nassarawa State. “He was telling the lies in order to apparently cover up his fraudulent identity from his acclaimed wife and the general public. One of the recent victims of the suspect was a 55-year-old divorcee and mother of four who he met in Gombe State early this year and proposed a marriage with deceit. The marriage was purportedly solemnised by a mallam in Yola, Adamawa State in the absence of the affected woman”, he said. According to him, Jonathan who was Christian claimed to have converted to Islam and now bears Shaibu Adamu in order to fulfil one of the conditions offered as a prerequisite for the marriage. He was later discovered to have made away with several belongings of the purported wife to an elusive matrimonial apartment in Jalingo. Abubakar disclosed that the suspect deceitfully collected the woman’s Honda Odyssey vehicle with a promise to buy her a brand new Toyota car when received his leave allowance and other packages from the service. “He was telling the lies in order to apparently cover up his fraudulent identity from his acclaimed wife and the general public.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Friday reported 454 new cases of COVID-19 in the country taking the total number of confirmed cases to 27,564. While 11,069 patients have recovered and discharged from treatment centres, the death toll from the pandemic now stands at 628 in the country. Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 87, followed by Edo State which had 63. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had 60 new cases. Ondo State reported 41 new cases, while Benue State had 32. Abia State reported 31, Ogun  State had 29, Oyo State had 19 and Kaduna State had 17 cases. In Delta State, there were 16 new cases, 15 in Enugu State, 14 in Borno State, nine in Plateau State, eight in Nasarawa State, five in Kano State, four in Bauchi State, two in Gombe State and one each in Katsina and Kogi states.