The Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has said that it’s Kano Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, who was caught pocketing dollars that should be isolated, not him. Ganduje, who chairs All Progressive Congress (APC) Campaign Council for Edo State governorship election, had said, “We know the PDP made Wike their chairman. I assure you; we will isolate Wike in an isolation centre and before he recovers, the election is over.” However, speaking during the inauguration of the PDP campaign council on Tuesday, Wike, who is the Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) National Campaign Council for the Edo State Governorship Election, responded to Gabduje’s statement, Wike said he would not be intimidated. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Governor Wike To Head Obaseki’s Campaign “Nobody can intimidate us in this election. Yesterday, I was told and today I read on the pages of newspapers that one Governor Ganduje said that he is going to isolate me until the election is over”, Wike said. He stated that if Nigeria was working Ganduje should be isolated and not him adding that the people would reject APC in the Edo State election. “If Nigeria is supposed to be a country, who is supposed to be isolated? A man who pockets dollars in babanriga from contractors is not isolated and you say that I should be isolated. In this country, where are we heading to? “Let me tell you why they (APC) made Ganduje the chairman of the campaign council; it is because of the dollars they saw. “But what he doesn’t understand is that we are from the Niger Delta; we shall chop his dollar and we will chop him to a coma. So, Ganduje, your dollar will not work in Edo State, we have integrity in our party”, Wike said. The Chief of Staff to Kwara State Governor, Aminu Logun, is dead. Logun was said to have died as a result of complications from coronavirus, according to Kwara State governor, Abdulrahalmam Abdulrazaq. Abdulrazaq, who described the late CoS as a diligent statesman, said Logun died from COVID-19 complications on Tuesday evening via his official twitter handle. “With total submission to the will of Allah, I announce the passing of my Chief of Staff, Aminu Logun (mni). We lost him this evening to complications from COVID-19, Abdulrazaq said. READ ALSO: President Buhari’s Chief Of Staff Abba Kyari Dies Of COVID-19 Commiserating with Logun’s family, Abdulrazaq said “Logun was an industrialist, a public intellectual, and an elder statesman who diligently served the state. “I commiserate with his family and the entire Ilorin Emirate. I pray the Almighty Allah to grant him Al-Jannah Firdaus & give the family the fortitude to bear the huge loss”. According to Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Kwara State has recorded a total number of 284 cases of coronavirus, 161 recoveries and nine deaths as a result of coronavirus.