President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the suspension of Ibrahim Magu as acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and appointed in his place Mohammed Umar. Magu, a commissioner of police is under investigation by a presidential committee head by former Court of Appeal President, Justice Ayo Salami, over acts of misconduct and mismanagement of recovered public funds stolen by government officials. A statement from Umar Gwandu, spokesman to the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, confirmed the suspension on Friday. Gwandu said in the statement, “President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the immediate suspension of Ibrahim Magu as Ag. Chairman EFCC in order to allow for unhindered inquiry by the Presidential Investigation Panel under the Tribunals of Inquiry Act and other relevant laws. The statement also said that the Commission’s Director of Operations, Mohammed Umar would oversee activities of the EFCC while Magu is being investigated. “President Muhammadu Buhari has also approved that the EFCC Director of Operations, Mohammed Umar, should take charge and oversee the activities of the Commission pending the conclusion of the ongoing investigation and further directives in that regards.” Magu has been under detention since he was arrested on Monday and in the last five days, has spent his days answering questions from the presidential panel and his nights at the Area 10 FCID The Federal Government has approved another evacuation flight for stranded Nigerians in the United States. This will be the fourth time the Nigerian government is evacuating its citizens stranded in the US as a result the COVID-19 pandemic. The flight is scheduled to depart Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR), New Jersey on Tuesday, July 28, 2020 by 21:15hrs and arrive Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (ABV), ABUJA on Wednesday, July 29, 2020 by 13:25hrs. READ ALSO: Evacuation Of Nigerians Stranded Abroad Begins This Week This was disclosed in a statement by Consulate General of Nigeria, New York, shared via twitter by Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, on Friday. The statement said, “All prospective evacuees duly registered with any of the three Nigerian Missions in the USA should purchase their one-way tickets through www.ethiopianairlines.com at the cost of USD 1,250.00 for Economy class and USD2,800.00 for Business Class for adult/child fare, including all taxes, with the usual percentage reduction for infants under 2yrs. “All prospective evacuees who purchased tickets, should forward a copy of their evacuation ticket, as well as the name, phone number and contact address of their Next of Kin in Nigeria to cgnny@nigeriahouse.com, which will be done on a ‘first come, first served’ basis.” READ ALSO: 292 Nigerians Evacuated From Saudi Arabia – Onyeama It added that prospective evacuees must adhere strictly to safety guidelines and precautions put in place by the Nigerian Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 to be considered for evacuation. READ ALSO: FG Evacuates 268 Nigerians Stranded In China “In accordance with the Nigerian Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, all prospective evacuees must present an original COVID-19 NEGATIVE test result (not older than 14 days on the day of departure) at the Airport and undergo a Temperature check 4hrs before departure. “Any intending evacuees without the stipulated test result, or a body temperature above 38 degrees centigrade, or any symptoms suggestive of COVID-19, WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO CHECK IN. “While on board, all prospective evacuees are required to wear face masks and be in possession of a hand sanitizer for intermittent use throughout the journey. Furthermore, all returnees are enjoined to adhere strictly to all instructions of Port Health Services (PHS) officials and observe other entry screening protocols on arrival”, the statement read.