The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Acting Secretary of the Health and Human Services Secretariat, Dr. Mohammed Kawu has tested positive for COVID-19. The FCTA made this known in a statement on Thursday, urging Nigerians to take responsibility and stay safe because COVID-19 is real and can be fatal. READ ALSO: FCT Records 100 New Cases Of COVID-19 According to the statement, Kawu had told journalists at the Asokoro District Hospital on Wednesday, where he is currently receiving treatment that his journey to the Isolation Center began 12 days earlier when he experienced feverish conditions. READ ALSO: Cemetery Workers Who Buried Abba Kyari Isolated For Testing – FCTA That, the statement said, prompted him to take the COVID-19 test which turned out to be positive. The statement added, “Dr Kawu who is the equivalent to the commissioner said, “I want every Nigerians, like I’ve always told them in the media, that this thing is real and anybody can be infected, especially those of us that are on the frontline. The disease can be fatal and it is important that everyone follows all the extant guidelines of hand washing or sanitizing, maintain social distancing, wearing of facial covering and staying at home. “So, my appeal to everyone in the society is that we must all be part and parcel of this fight against the COVID-19. Everybody must take personal responsibility to ensure that he or she protects his or herself and his or her family,” The FCT has seven isolation and treatment centres across the Territory and six of them are public facilities while one is privately managed. After reporting 460 new cases of COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says there are now 30,249 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease in the country. The NCDC said on Wednesday in its daily update that 12,373 had so been been discharged and 684 deaths recorded, an increase from 669 from the previous day. READ ALSO: 15 More Die From COVID-19 Complications The number of new cases in Lagos once again topped the list with 150, followed by Rivers with 49 cases. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Cases In Lagos Rise To 11,045 In Oyo State, there 43 new cases, while Delta State had 38. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 26 new cases, Anambra and Kano states recorded 20 cases each. READ ALSO: Kwara State CoS Dies Of COVID-19 Plateau State had 18 cases, Edo State had 14, Bayelsa and Enugu states had 13 each, while Osun State had 12. Kwara State recorded 10 new cases, Borno State had eight, Ogun State had seven, Kaduna State had six, Imo State had four, Bauchi and Gombe states had three each, Niger State had two and Adamawa State had one case.