The speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Thursday said that he had asked the Clerk of the House to initiate a criminal complaint of perjury against the Godswill Akpabio, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs. Akpabio, who appeared before House of Representatives committee probing allegations of corruption in the agency on Monday had said that lawmakers were the “greatest beneficiaries” of NDDC contracts. In a series of tweets on Thursday, Gbajabiamila, who had asked Akpabio, to name lawmaker who got contracts from Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) within 48 hours or face the wrath of the law, said Akpabio would be sued for defamation. READ ALSO: Gbajabiamila Tells Akpabio To Name Lawmakers Who Got NDDC Contracts Within 48hrs Or… “This morning, I asked the Clerk of @HouseNGR to engage the services of legal counsel, and instruct them to initiate a criminal complaint of perjury against the Minister. At the same time, we will instruct counsel to explore the possibility of a civil defamation suit”, Gbajabiamila said. He said that Akpabio had failed to provide evidence to back up his claims, adding that he would not watch anyone damage the image of the House which he leads. “Last Tuesday I issued a 48-hour ultimatum to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs to substantiate his allegation that over 60% (sixty per cent) of contracts awarded by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) went to members of the @nassnigeria “I said then that the Honourable Minister owed it to himself and the country to provide evidence to support these serious allegations. The Honourable Minister has failed to respond to my request. READ ALSO: NDDC Probe: Drama As MD Slumps During Questioning “Therefore, I must conclude that his statement intended solely to gaslight the nation to avoid accountability for the evident maladministration and malfeasance in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). “I have held every @HouseNGR leadership position from Minority Whip, to Minority Leader, Leader of the House (Majority Leader) and now Speaker. I recognise that the House has not always lived up to the high expectations of the Nigerian people. “As much as we still have a lot to do in that regard, I refuse to sit here in good conscience and allow anyone to assassinate the character of the House in an attempt to deflect accountability for their conduct in office”, he said. READ ALSO: South-South Governors Back Buhari On NDDC Probe Allegations of massive corruption in the NDDC have come to the fore in the past weeks as lawmakers probe into financial recklessness in the agency. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Wednesday reported 543 new cases of COVID-19 infections. The total number of confirmed cases has now risen to 38,344, with 15,815 patients discharged and 813 deaths recorded. Lagos State reported the highest number of new infections with 180 followed by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) which had 86. Kaduna State was third with the number of new cases reporting 56, while Edo State recorded 47. In Ondo State, there were 37 new cases, 35 in Kwara State, 19 each in Ogun and Rivers states and 17 in Kano State. Ebonyi and Enugu states reported 16 cases each, Delta State had seven, Bayelsa State had four, Bauchi State reported three, while Abia State had one.