The Federal Government has temporarily cancelled this year’s secondary schools leaving exams conducted by the West African Examination Council. The government has also reversed course on the planned resumption of school for students in their last years of primary, junior secondary and senior secondary schools. The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, said on Wednesday that the government was willing to sacrifice one year of academic calendar to protect students from the coronavirus. READ ALSO: FG Announces Date For WAEC Exams He was speaking shortly after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari. Schools, he said would not reopen any time soon until it is safe to open them. The WAEC exams were originally meant to hold in May but couldn’t because of the outbreak of the coronavirus and were later scheduled to hold between August 5 and September 4. Mr. Adamu said the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) couldn’t be the one determining factor for the government when schools in the country should reopen, adding that he would prefer students lose one academic year, than expose them to COVID-19. As commercial flights resume in two of  Nigeria’s major airports in Lagos and Abuja, Arik Air became the first airline to operate a flight which took off from Lagos and landed in Abuja at 8.30 am on Wednesday morning. Air Peace also operated a flight from Abuja to Lagos shortly after. The Air Peace flight was scheduled to have departed Abuja for Lagos at 8.30am. READ ALSO: Domestic Flights To Resume July 8 No domestic commercial flight has operated in the country since March 27 due to the outbreak of coronavirus and the government’s efforts to contain it. Passengers appear to be flocking back to the airport as the Arik flight witnessed a good number of them arriving from Lagos. The CEO of Arik Air, Roy Ilegbodu had said a few days ago that the airline would be operating three flights a day.
READ ALSO: Social Distancing On Single Aisle Plane Not Possible – Aero CEO
A schedule at the airport showed it had three flights planned from Abuja to Lagos at 9.15 am, 1.45pm and 6.15pm. Tickets for these flights are  being sold online at the rate of N29,022 for economy class and N71,495 for business class. Air Peace had other scheduled flights from Abuja to Lagos at 4.30pm and 7.30pm with tickets selling at N33,000. The minister of aviation,  Hadi Siriki had said last week that only two airports would begin flight operations on July 8, that is Lagos and Abuja. In a July 2nd tweet, he said other airports, specifically those in Kano, Port Harcourt, Owerri and Maiduguri would begin flight operations on July 11, 2020.