The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has added maize to the list of items banned from being imported into the country. The CBN said in a circular on Monday that it would no longer process Forms M needed for the importation of maize into the country. READ ALSO: CBN Lowers Interest Rate To 12.5% This is part of efforts by the CBN to restart the economy devastated by the COVID-19 pandemic and protect local farmers. The CBN had in the past made similar efforts, denying access to foreign currencies for the importation of certain items, which has included rice, milk and other livestock and agricultural products. READ ALSO: CBN Asks Banks Not To Sack Workers The circular, signed by the CBN’s director of trade and exchange, O. S. Nnaji, directed all authorised dealers to submit the list of Forms M already registered for the importation of maize/corn using a designated format on or before the close of business on Wednesday, July 15, 2020. The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, on Monday said that findings and emerging evidence were pointing to possible airborne transmission of COVID-19. Speaking at the Presidential Task Force briefing on Monday, Ihekweazu said the World Health Organization (WHO) had acknowledged this reality and had also updated its guidelines to accommodate this emerging fact about COVID-19. READ ALSO: As COVID-19 Deaths Hit 709, Lagos Reports New High Of 224 Single Day Cases He said, “As I often say we are learning about this new virus. Understand the modes of transmission of any new virus is very critical for defining response strategies. For COVID-19, from the very beginning our understanding was that spread was primarily through droplets excretion from the respiratory tract. “However, as we have studied transmission, we saw an evidence from clusters of infection that shows that droplets transmission do not seem to be the only mode of transmission. He said finding in the last weeks were pointing to possible airborne transmission of COVID-19, adding that it was a call to adapt safety guidelines to emerging evidence. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Cases Near 32,000 Ihekweazu said, “Over the past few weeks, increasing evidence have emerged that in addition to droplet transmission we cannot rule out airborne transmission of COVID-19. The World Health Organisation has updated it’s guidelines saying exactly the same thing: that we cannot rule out airborne transmission. “So we have to act in a precautionary way assuming that this is also possible hiving the new evidence that is emerging. Why is this important? It means that staying together in closed places in clusters such as restaurants, small rooms with poor ventilation. Indoor activities are risky than outdoor activities, especially when there are many people in the room and we don’t adhere to social distancing and wear mask. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Deaths Now 740 Ihekweazu urged Nigerians to adhere to social distancing, and avoid mass gatherings as the NCDC was working to adapt its safety protocol to accommodate emerging evidence on the transmission of the virus. “What does this mean for response? It means we must speak in louder voice on things that we have been saying. We have to strength further the avoidance of mass gatherings, or gathering of any nature. “We have to pay attention to social distancing, wearing mask, avoid overcrowded places.  We will keep adapting our guidelines inline with emerging evidence”, he said.