A former acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Interim Management Committee, Joi Nunieh, speaking on Arise News on Monday said she was sexually harassed by the Minister of Niger Delta, Godswil Akpabio for which earned him a slap. Nunieh had last week also accused Akpabio of engineering her removal at the head of the NDDC for not agreeing to his shady ways for managing the Commission. Though she said that what transpired between them did not necessarily constitute attempted rape, Nunieh noted Akpabio was always scheduling meetings with her at his guest house or in hotels. She said, “When Akpabio saw that I cannot bring out the money, he now tried Plan B, a case of insubordination. Why did he not tell Mr President that I slapped him? Why did he not tell Nigerians that I slapped him? “Why did he take me to a guest house in Apo? Why did he not tell Nigerians what insubordination is all about? “Why did I stop to meet him? He told the Senate committee that I refused to meet him to have meeting. Why didn’t we have our meetings in his office? I told Mr. Akpabio that I will not go to any meeting outside his office. She said,“The last time he came to Port Harcourt, I did not go to Le’Meriden to meet him. I am the only Ogoni woman, the only Nigerian woman to slap his face. I slapped him because of his Plan B. “He thought since he couldn’t get me to release the money, he thought that Plan B if he could could come on me, he didn’t know that I am a Port Harcourt girl.” In the course of he interview on Arise, she said, “Harassment sounds better not rape. Yes, I am accusing him. Akpabio is most interested in my love life. Did he want to be my seventh husband? “That’s why Akpabio told the world that I am temperamental. You know why Akpabio will tell the world that I may temperamental? Because of that incident that I slapped him.” The youngest daughter of South Africa’s first black president Nelson Mandela and anti-apartheid activist Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Zindzi Mandela, is dead. A statement by Mandela Family shared on twitter on Monday announced the passing of Zinzi. “It is with great sadness that we announce the death of Mama Zindzi Mandela, youngest daughter of the late ANC Stalwarts Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela and Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. “She is survived by her children and grandchildren. Memorial service and funeral arrangements to be announced in the course of the week”, the statement reads. Zinzi, 59, was serving as the South African ambassador to Denmark at the time of her death. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa in a condolence message shared on his offcial twitter page on Monday, said Zindzi Mandela was an “political activist and an icon”. “I offer my deep condolences to the Mandela family as we mourn the passing of a fearless political activist who was a leader in her own right. Our sadness is compounded by this loss being visited upon us just days before the world marks the birthday of the great Nelson Mandela. “Zindzi Mandela was a household name nationally and internationally, who during our years of struggle brought home the inhumanity of the apartheid system and the unshakeable resolve of our fight for freedom. “After our liberation she became an icon of the task we began of transforming our society and stepping into spaces and opportunities that had been denied to generations of South Africans”, Ramaphosa said.