Ramon Abbas, popular Nigerian Instagram celebrity known as ‘hushpuppi’, was denied bail by a US court in the northern district of Illinois on Monday. Huspuppi, who was extradited by Dubai police to the US to face prosecution two weeks ago, will remain in detention until his trial over money laundering allegations later this year. READ ALSO: Hushpuppi Could Spend 20 Years In Jail – US Department Of Justice “Appearing at a detention hearing, a court in the Northern District of Illinois ruled that Abbas will be transported to Los Angeles by the U.S. Marshals Service, and will not be allowed to stay with his girlfriend’s uncle in Homewood, Illinois. “His trial is slated to be held in Los Angeles where the case was filed, rather from Chicago where the investigation is being handled. READ ALSO: Don’t Cry For Hushpuppi “Throughout the hearing Abbas’s lawyer denied that his client was a flight risk or a danger to the community, repeatedly rejecting the allegations made against his client by the FBI’s affidavit posted earlier this month”, Forbes reported. Allegations against Hushpuppi according to the Department of Justice US Attorney’s Office, include: defrauding of a New-York based law firm of over $900,000, conspiracy to launder funds stolen in a $14.7 million cyber-heist, and another plot to defraud an English Premier League soccer club the sum of $124 million. READ ALSO: Dubai Police Extradites Hushpuppi To US The Department of Justice US Attorney’s Office had said that Hushpuppi could be jailed for 20 years if convicted of conspiracy to engage in money laundering. The Supreme Court in a ruling on Tuesday said court proceedings held virtually were constitutional after striking out a suit filed by the Attorney General of Lagos,  Moyosore Onigbanjo. Onigbanjo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria had challenged the powers of the National Assembly to pass laws determining the rules for court proceedings. The attorney general had also asked the Supreme Court to decide whether having regard to Section 36(1), (3) and (4) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) use of technology by remote hearings of any kind, whether by Zoom, Microsoft Teams, WhatsApp, Skype or any other audiovisual or video-conference platform by the Lagos state high court or any other courts in Nigeria in aid of hearing and determination of cases are constitutional. READ ALSO: All Government Meetings Must Be Virtual – FG While the court recognised that the National Assembly was presently considering a bill to make court proceedings on digital platforms constitutional, it however ruled in favour of virtual sittings describing the suit as immature and speculative. The seven panel of the court that made the ruling said the bill in the National Assembly was yet to go through the second and third reading and sent to all assemblies of the 36 states, the court cannot decide on it. The Supreme Court said, “Can we at this stage speculate the outcome of the national assembly? Even if we can, the amendment must have occurred before the suit matures,” the court held. “Even the devil knows not the intent of a man. Your suit is speculative and it is a fundamental law that we don’t act on speculations. Wait for them to pass the law and see if it will affect your own rules of court.”