The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has asked Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godwill Akpabio, to name lawmaker who got contracts from Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) within 48 hours or face the wrath of the law. Akpabio, who appeared before House of Representativess committee probing allegations of corruption in the agency on Monday had said that lawmakers were the “greatest beneficiaries” of NDDC contracts. “Just look at your chairman, (Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo), I have records to show that most of the NDDC contracts were given out to the National Assembly members. The two chairmen of both committees can explain to you. READ ALSO: NDDC Probe: Drama As MD Slumps During Questioning “Who are even the greatest beneficiaries of the contracts? It’s you people at the National Assembly”, Akpabio said. Speaking on the house floor on Tuesday, however, Gbajabiamila, challenged Akpabio to “publish the names, contracts, date and unveil the companies of the 60 per cent projects that were given to the National Assembly members.” He said, “I’ve never once collected contracts from the NDDC and I know I can speak for many other members. “I hereby call on the minister to within 24-48 hours to publish the names, contracts, date and unveil the companies of the 60 per cent projects that were given to the National Assembly.” Gabajabiamila added that Akpabio’s failure to publish the names of lawmakers who got contracts from NDDC would have legal consequences. READ ALSO: Akpabio Appears Before House Committee Probing NDDC “Failing which, this house will bring the full wrath of the house on him. It is important that we set this record straight. “The minister owes it to himself, to the committee, to people of Niger Delta, and the country to publish it. I will reserve my judgement. The minister came there to play games, but we do not play games here”, Gbajabiamila said. Allegations of massive corruption in the NDDC have come to the fore in the past weeks as lawmakers probe into financial recklessness in the agencY. President Muhammadu Buhari  on Tuesday held a closed door meeting with former president Goodluck Jonathan, at the State House in Abuja. No official communication has been released from the presidency about the nature or the agenda for the meeting. The meeting is however coming after a recent trip to Mali by Jonathan who was there to mediate a political logjam. ECOWAS recently appointed Jonathan to lead the political reconciliation in Mali where there is political crisis. Jonathan had recommended a Government of National Unity as a way out of the crisis. The former president also met President Buhari on January 30, 2020  at the Presidential Villa.