The Nigerian Army on Thursday narrated how a depressed soldier serving in 202 Battalion of 21 Special Armoured Brigade Bama, Borno State shot and killed an officer on Wednesday. Colonel Sagir Musa, Acting Director Army Public Relations, in a statement on Thursday, said that,  “A trooper of the Nigerian Army serving in 202 Battalion of 21 Special Armoured Brigade Bama, Borno State, went beserk at about 1030 hours on the 29th of July 2020 and fired  at an officer (a Subaltern) which led to his death. “The incident happened when the soldier approached the officer who was standing in front of the Unit’s Headquarters making a phone call. Musa stated that the “soldier who had killed the officer had been arrested and was in custody undergoing investigation, adding that the remains of the deceased officer had been evacuated to 7 Division Medical Services and Hospital.” While condoling with the family of the deceased, the Nigerian Army said, “Investigation into the case has since been instituted to determine the circumstances that led to the unfortunate incident. “The family of the deceased has already been contacted. The Nigerian Army sympathizes and condoles with the family at this trying moment, and pray to the Almighty God to repose the soul of the departed and grant his family and other loved ones the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. May his gentle soul rest in peace. President Muhammadu Buhari joins Yoruba socio-cultural and political organisation, Afenifere, in mourning the passing of Pa Ayorinde Fasanmi. In a statement by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President onMedia and Publicity on Thursday, President Buhari described the death of Fasanmi as a great loss. “The President condoles with people and government of Osun and Ekiti States, family members, friends and associates of the elder statesman, who served as a legislator in both House of Representatives and Senate, and distinguished himself politically by always standing for the truth, especially on issues related to the uplifting of the downtrodden. READ ALSO: Afenifere Leader, Ayo Fasanmi Dies At 94 “President Buhari affirms that Chief Fasanmi’s wise counsels borne out of humility, deep reflection, diligent studies and experience will be sorely missed by governments at different levels, as he regularly and willingly listened to leaders, and always had a good advice on going forward”, the statement read. While consoling the family, President Buhari said that the efforts of Chief Fasanmi in the founding and sustenance of Nigeria’s democracy will be remembered, and posterity will be glad for his great sacrifices.