The youngest daughter of South Africa’s first black president Nelson Mandela and anti-apartheid activist Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Zindzi Mandela, is dead. A statement by Mandela Family shared on twitter on Monday announced the passing of Zinzi. “It is with great sadness that we announce the death of Mama Zindzi Mandela, youngest daughter of the late ANC Stalwarts Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela and Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. “She is survived by her children and grandchildren. Memorial service and funeral arrangements to be announced in the course of the week”, the statement reads. Zinzi, 59, was serving as the South African ambassador to Denmark at the time of her death. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa in a condolence message shared on his offcial twitter page on Monday, said Zindzi Mandela was an “political activist and an icon”. “I offer my deep condolences to the Mandela family as we mourn the passing of a fearless political activist who was a leader in her own right. Our sadness is compounded by this loss being visited upon us just days before the world marks the birthday of the great Nelson Mandela. “Zindzi Mandela was a household name nationally and internationally, who during our years of struggle brought home the inhumanity of the apartheid system and the unshakeable resolve of our fight for freedom. “After our liberation she became an icon of the task we began of transforming our society and stepping into spaces and opportunities that had been denied to generations of South Africans”, Ramaphosa said. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Sunday reported 16 more deaths from COVID-19 taking the country’s death toll to 740. The NCDC also reported 571 new cases of the Coronavirus disease with the total number of confirmed cases rising to 32,558. A total of 13,447 patients have however recovered and discharged from treatment centres across the country. A total of 20 states recorded new cases as reported by NCDC on Sunday with Lagos reporting the most with 152 cases. Ebonyi witnessed a spike in new cases, reporting 108, while Edo recorded 53 new cases. Ondo had 46 cases. In the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), there were 38 new cases, 20 in Oyo, 19 in Kwara, 17 in Plteau, and 14 each in Osun, Bayelsa,  Ekiti and Katsina states. Akwa Ibom, Kaduna and Rivers states reported 11 cases each, Niger had 10, Ogun had seven, Kano had six, Cross River had four and Bauchi had two.