The United States Government has said foreign students whose schools will be offering only on-line classes when they resume in September will have to leave the country or face deportation.  A number of universities including Harvard have already said they will be offering only online classes at the start of a new semester in September due to the outbreak of COVID-19. To avoid deportations, foreign students will have transfer to schools offering in-person classes according to a statement by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), an agency of the US Government. The ICE in a statement on Monday said, “The Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) announced modifications Monday to temporary exemptions for nonimmigrant students taking online classes due to the pandemic for the fall 2020 semester. “The U.S. Department of Homeland Security plans to publish the procedures and responsibilities in the Federal Register as a Temporary Final Rule.” According to the statement, “Nonimmigrant F-1 and M-1 students attending schools operating entirely online may not take a full online course load and remain in the United States. “The U.S. Department of State will not issue visas to students enrolled in schools and/or programs that are fully online for the fall semester nor will U.S. Customs and Border Protection permit these students to enter the United States.” “Active students currently in the United States enrolled in such programs must depart the country or take other measures, such as transferring to a school with in-person instruction to remain in lawful status. If not, they may face immigration consequences including, but not limited to, the initiation of removal proceedings.” The ICE said added, “Nonimmigrant students within the United States are not permitted to take a full course of study through online classes. If students find themselves in this situation, they must leave the country or take alternative steps to maintain their nonimmigrant status such as a reduced course load or appropriate medical leave.” The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is committing as much as N12m for research proposals from academics from tertiary institutions on how to replace foreign technologies in specific areas in the telecommunications sector. While the Commission has set criteria for evaluating proposals, one key condition is that the project cost should not exceed a maximum of N12m. The NCC says it’s offering the research grant to support among other things, telecommunications-based innovations and research from tertiary institutions in the country that are practical, locally realizable and have clear potential of developing the telecommunications industry. The Commission’s invitation for proposals from academics in tertiary institutions seeks feasible research ideas, capable of replacing or enhancing foreign technologies in the telecommunications in Nigeria. The NCC said, “It is envisaged that the initiative will help build capacity in the tertiary institutions and promote Nigeria’s contribution to the pool of technologies in use in the communications industry.” The research areas expected to be covered include: Innovative clean energy Technology, 5G deployment in Nigeria, IoT Low Power Wide Area Network (WAN) Technology, Advanced method of Quality of Service (QoS)/Quality of Experience Management and test mechanism, and Monitoring and localisation of drones. According to the requirements set by NCC, “Uninterested researchers are required to submit their proposals which must:
• Come from teaching Academics in Nigeria’s tertiary institutions; and
• Have a one-page executive summary of the research proposal to include relevance of the research to the telecommunications industry, deliverables, novelty of concept, methodology, team experience, project timeline and detailed cost schedule” The Commission however set the criteria for the evaluation of the research submissions to include the following: “The area must fall within the specified areas of research, adherence of proposal to stated requirements above, novelty of research proposal (comprehensive literature review to bring out clearly the novelty of the research).” Others are clear statement and explanation of the problem, proposed solution to the problem, proposed approach and methodology, each project including prototype development must be concluded within 2 years and the project cost should not exceed a maximum of twelve million naira (N12,000,000.00) only. (the Commission reserves the right to review this maximum amount).” Also, any academic with a yet to be completed research project with the Commission SHOULD NOT apply. The total cost (including all costs) of the project must also be clearly stated and broken down in details, for which there can be no variation. According to the set conditions, there should be proof of concept (feasibility of idea with diagram, algorithm etc.) and clear relevance to the telecommunications industry and evidence of competence of team in executing the project (include past work and CVs of team members).