The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, on Monday said that findings and emerging evidence were pointing to possible airborne transmission of COVID-19. Speaking at the Presidential Task Force briefing on Monday, Ihekweazu said the World Health Organization (WHO) had acknowledged this reality and had also updated its guidelines to accommodate this emerging fact about COVID-19. READ ALSO: As COVID-19 Deaths Hit 709, Lagos Reports New High Of 224 Single Day Cases He said, “As I often say we are learning about this new virus. Understand the modes of transmission of any new virus is very critical for defining response strategies. For COVID-19, from the very beginning our understanding was that spread was primarily through droplets excretion from the respiratory tract. “However, as we have studied transmission, we saw an evidence from clusters of infection that shows that droplets transmission do not seem to be the only mode of transmission. He said finding in the last weeks were pointing to possible airborne transmission of COVID-19, adding that it was a call to adapt safety guidelines to emerging evidence. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Cases Near 32,000 Ihekweazu said, “Over the past few weeks, increasing evidence have emerged that in addition to droplet transmission we cannot rule out airborne transmission of COVID-19. The World Health Organisation has updated it’s guidelines saying exactly the same thing: that we cannot rule out airborne transmission. “So we have to act in a precautionary way assuming that this is also possible hiving the new evidence that is emerging. Why is this important? It means that staying together in closed places in clusters such as restaurants, small rooms with poor ventilation. Indoor activities are risky than outdoor activities, especially when there are many people in the room and we don’t adhere to social distancing and wear mask. READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Deaths Now 740 Ihekweazu urged Nigerians to adhere to social distancing, and avoid mass gatherings as the NCDC was working to adapt its safety protocol to accommodate emerging evidence on the transmission of the virus. “What does this mean for response? It means we must speak in louder voice on things that we have been saying. We have to strength further the avoidance of mass gatherings, or gathering of any nature. “We have to pay attention to social distancing, wearing mask, avoid overcrowded places.  We will keep adapting our guidelines inline with emerging evidence”, he said. No fewer than 35 medical doctors in Kwara have tested positive for COVID-19 since the pandemic broke out earlier this year according to the state branch of the Nigerian Medical Association. The Kwara State chairman of NMA, Dr. Kolade Solagberu, however told journalists on Monday that the association had not recorded any deaths from the 35 that were infected. Solagberu asked the public to take the pandemic more seriously, help protect health workers and avoid visiting hospitals during the pandemic, unless it is a life-threatening case. READ ALSO: Kwara State CoS Dies Of COVID-19 He said, “Residents should help the doctors to help them by not paying unnecessary visits or consultations to hospitals “For now, people should avoid visiting the hospital except for life-threatening issues. We advise people to engage in e-health services instead of physical consultation to avoid contact as much as possible.” READ ALSO: Nigeria’s COVID-19 Deaths Now 740 Solagberu, “People should stop unnecessary visits to patients in the hospital. Those who follow a patient waiting to be attended to, are not encouraged for now. “You should just help us to help you because the less the number of patients we attend to, the less the chances of spreading the virus. This is because every patient is a potential COVID-19 case.”