An Appeal Court in Lagos has dismissed an appeal filed by Adegboyega Adenekan, a school supervisor at Chrisland School, Victoria Garden City (VGC), Lagos who was jailed for 60 years for defiling a two-year-old girl. Adenekan, who was arraigned on January 29, 2018, on a one-count charge of defiling a two-year-old pupil of  Chrisland School, Victoria Garden City (VGC), Lagos State and sentenced to 60 years in prison on October 24, 2019, approached the court of appeal seeking to upturn his conviction. In the judgment delivered on Monday, however, the appeal court dismissed the Adenekan’ appeal, affirming the verdict of the trial court. READ ALSO: NAPTIP Exposes Names, Photos Of Convicted Rapists Lagos state Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team (DSVRT) made this known in a tweet on Monday. “The court of appeal dismissed the appeal and affirmed the Judgement of the lower court (sexual offences court – Nwaka J.) in the case of Adegboyega Adenekan (Chrisland School Supervisor) today 27th day of July 2020″, the tweet reads. The Interview had reported that Adenekan, was among the list of sexual offenders published by the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons two months ago. Nigerian governors from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari over a job well done in his handling of the affairs of the country. They have praised him for his handling of security issues and the economy, noting in particular, the success recorded in pulling the country out of the 2016 economic recession as well as the ongoing management of the COVID-19 pandemic. The governors, who were present at Tuesday’s Virtual interaction with the governors of the APC-controlled States, praised him for his handling of security issues and the economy, noting in particular, the success recorded in pulling the country out of the 2016 economic recession as well as the ongoing management of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are proud of you”, the governors told President Buhari. READ ALSO: We Must Save APC From Self-Destruction – Buhari President Buhari, who also spoke at the meeting with the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, in attendance, commended members of the Mai Mala Buni-led All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Committee for the work they are doing in repositioning the governing party. The suspension of the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC in June led to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party selecting the Yobe State governor and others as the Chairman and members of the Caretaker Committee as well as of the extraordinary National Convention Committee respectively. The President told them at the meeting that he was pleased with the work that the Caretaker Committee has been doing, according to a statement signed by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President Media and Publicity on Tuesday. READ ALSO: Buhari Dissolves APC NWC As Yobe Governor Heads Caretaker Committee “I am pleased with the Chairman and the work of the committee. He is highly mobile in the efforts to coordinate and strengthen the party. I am happy with his personal efforts”, Buhari said. He also appreciated the efforts of the APC Governors following the successful conduct of the party primaries in Edo and Ondo states, adding that, “I am happy that they knew their responsibilities as Governors and had identified the right priorities.”