An independent panel of experts, headed by former Irish president Mary Robinson, has cleared the beleaguered leader of the African Bank of Development (AfDB) of corruption, according to a report by AFP. Akinwumi Adesina had been accused by whistleblowers in a 15-page report earlier this year mismanaging the bank, poor governance, impunity, personal enrichment and favouritism. The panel of three experts, led by Robinson alongside Gambia’s Chief Justice Hassan Jallow and the World Bank’s integrity vice president Leonard McCarthy, cleared Adesina of all charges alleged by whistleblowers. READ ALSO: ‘I Will Continue To Support You,’ Buhari Assures Adesina, AfDB President “The Panel concurs with the Committee in its findings in respect of all the allegations against the President and finds that they were properly considered and dismissed by the Committee,” Monday’s report concluded. The African banking institution and Adesina – who is the sole candidate for the bank’s August’s presidential elections – has been battered by the rollercoaster of allegations after the whistleblowers’ complaints were leaked to the media in April. The former Nigerian finance minister had always stated he was “innocent” of the charges. READ ALSO: AfDB Board Okays Independent Probe Of Adesina Robinson – who led Ireland from 1990 to 1997 before serving as the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights until 2002 – dismissed the 16 whistleblower allegations against Adesina. The panel did not investigate the charges themselves, as that was not within their mandate. The AfDB plays an important if largely behind-the-scenes role in African economies, financing projects in agriculture, health, energy, education, transport and other development sectors. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Monday reported 648 new cases of COVID-19 in the country. While two more deaths were recorded, 229 more patients have recovered and discharged from hospital. Nigeria now has a total of 41,180 confirmed cases with 18,203 discharged and 860 deaths recorded. Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 180, followed by Plateau, which 148. The Federal Capital Tewrritory (FCT) reported 44 new cases, Ondo State had 42, Kwara State had 38, Rivers State had 32, Oyo State had 29, Kaduna State reported 21, while Osun State had 20. In Edo and Ogun states, each reported 17 new cases, Ekiti State reported 11,  while Kano, Benue, Delta and Abia states each reported nine new cases. In Niger State, there seven new cases, three in Gombe State and one each in Borno, Bauchi and Imo states.