Bauchi  State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has suspended the Emir of Misau, Alhaji Ahmad Suleiman, over communal clashes between farmers and herders that killed 9 people and injured many. The suspension of the emir and other traditional title holders in Misau followed allegations of culpability and complicity in igniting the crisis through shoddy deals and illegal confiscation and distribution of government lands. Mohammed who also suspended the Village head of Zadawa and District Head of Misau, Ciroman Misau, also banned them from moving out of the local government until the committee set up to investigate the crisis finished its assignment. The suspension of the district heads according to the governor followed a petition written by Fulani leaders in Misau local government area who alleged the involvement of the leaders in illegal confiscation and distribution of land that ignited the Misau crisis. The governor said, “The Traditional rulers and some disgruntled elements either masterminded or actively participated in this crisis. “As a responsible government that has the safety and wellbeing of its people at hands, we will not fold our arms and watch the culprits go unpunished,” Governor Bala vows while suspending the Emir and the two district heads in Misau LGA. “We are therefore duty-bound to make sure that we identify those people and bring them to book. “This will surely serve as deterrence to others who have similar intention. “We must do everything to stop these sharp practices that were causing so much pain to the common people especially the Fulani people, because that is what is turning them into kidnappers, criminals; because they have lost their own identity”, the governor said. He added, “We are aware that this flagrant abuse of trust in the hands of local government chairmen administrations in various local governments and the traditional institutions and other security agents is being reported to us. “This evening, we will set up another committee to look at these issue”, the governor said. The governor said his administration would not spare anybody no matter how highly placed they are if they disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the state. The governor inaugurated a committee of inquiry headed by Retired Air Commodore Tijanni Baba Gamawa. The committee was given three weeks to submit its reports. Mohammed had earlier suspended Misau Local Government Care Taker Committee Chairman, Mohammed Yaro Gwaram, over the same communal clashes. The Nigerian First lady, Aisha Buhari has raised the alarm over increased child malnutrition in Nigeria to due to coronavirus pandemic and restriction of movement in a bid to combat the pandemic. In a video shared on her twitter page on Friday, Mrs. Buhari said though  malnutrition in children had been an issue before now the pandemic has led to significant increase in the number of acutely malnourished children in Nigeria. She said, “Malnutrition has been a cause of death and underdevelopment among children under five in Nigeria even before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. With the emergence of the pandemic, however, and the subsequent restriction of movement, the situation has worsened resulting in the shortage of food supply. “This in turn has led to a significant increase in the number of acutely malnourished children which requires urgent attention and collective action.” Mrs. Buhari further requested humanitarian support, private sector intervention and donations by well meaning Nigerians to combat malnutrition among children between age zero to five. “I strongly believe that making provisions for this group of children is a step towards upholding their rights to good nutrition and their right to life”, she said. According to UNICEF, “An estimated 2 million children in Nigeria suffer from severe acute malnutrition (SAM), but only two out of every 10 children affected is currently reached with treatment. Seven percent of women of childbearing age also suffer from acute malnutrition.”