The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Sunday reported 16 more deaths from COVID-19 taking the country’s death toll to 740. The NCDC also reported 571 new cases of the Coronavirus disease with the total number of confirmed cases rising to 32,558. A total of 13,447 patients have however recovered and discharged from treatment centres across the country. A total of 20 states recorded new cases as reported by NCDC on Sunday with Lagos reporting the most with 152 cases. Ebonyi witnessed a spike in new cases, reporting 108, while Edo recorded 53 new cases. Ondo had 46 cases. In the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), there were 38 new cases, 20 in Oyo, 19 in Kwara, 17 in Plteau, and 14 each in Osun, Bayelsa,  Ekiti and Katsina states. Akwa Ibom, Kaduna and Rivers states reported 11 cases each, Niger had 10, Ogun had seven, Kano had six, Cross River had four and Bauchi had two. The former Minister of National Planning, Dr. Shamsuddeen Usman, has joined the Dantiye Centre for Good Leadership and Journalism (DCLJ) as an economic and regional adviser. The announcement was made on Thursday in a letter signed by the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of DCLJ, Emeritus Professor Munzali Jibril. According to the letter signed by Professor Jibril, the decision to appoint Usman as the Honorary Economic and Regional Adviser of DCLJ was taken because of his “contributions to the economic development and stability of Nigeria and countries in the West African sub-region” and also because of his passion for service. He said he hoped that Usman, who was also Nigeria’s Finance Minister between 2007 and 2009, would use his vast experience to continue to mentor young people and “tackle the multifarious development problems” facing the country and the continent. DCLJ is a non-governmental, not-for-profit organisation, with a coterie of professionals, set up to promote good leadership and excellent journalism. Jibril said in spite of the current turmoil facing the world, these were also exciting times to welcome Usman as the DCLJ was forging partnerships to seize new opportunities to deepen citizen engagement, capacity building, peace, stability and development in the country and across the sub-region.