The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has provided practical online safety tips for parents, care givers, and children. It also covers what to do before things go wrong while children spend time online, and what to do if things go wrong. In a document it released to the public, NCC said that the COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant change in mode of operation has compelled all stakeholders, parents, care givers, governments and industry players, to actively pursue, create and promote a safe online environment for children. Parents, the NCC said needed to create a balance between risk and opportunity. It said, “Child online abuse is a societal concern which is being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Countries are developing measures to address and provide significant assurance of online safety for children, their families, and society at large.” Educating young children about cyber safety, it said is complicated, as young children often do not understand the social and technical complexities of the internet. “This difficulty in understanding arises because the internet is virtual and cannot be experienced firsthand by the sense. As computers are usually in a place children perceive as safe, the risks are not readily apparent to them. “They do not understand that the computer can be networked and connected beyond the safe place to a world that can be both risky and dangerous. Young children and most adults, do not realize that materials posted on the internet often times, do not have external controls or standards to subscribe to.” According to the tips provided by the NCC, to keep children safe online, parents and care givers should: Parents should anticipate risks. Anticipation of risks will lead to appropriate control measures being put in place before a child is allowed access to digital devices or the internet. Some of these anticipatory control measures include: Parental education, care givers should be trained on how to guide children in online activities, schools have adopted the use of online platforms for education, parents should install child appropriate apps/search engines and install firewalls: Firewalls act as content filters. They help make sure non-age appropriate content does not appear on the child’s device. The second according to NCC is to empower the child. Others are to pay attention and be observant, discuss and engage with your children and if your child is using online platforms or programs for schoolwork, ensure a healthy balance between non-school related online activities and offline time. The two final tips for parent are reduce their own time online to model positive behaviour and use parental controls and safe search options. Bauchi  State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has suspended the Emir of Misau, Alhaji Ahmad Suleiman, over communal clashes between farmers and herders that killed 9 people and injured many. The suspension of the emir and other traditional title holders in Misau followed allegations of culpability and complicity in igniting the crisis through shoddy deals and illegal confiscation and distribution of government lands. Mohammed who also suspended the Village head of Zadawa and District Head of Misau, Ciroman Misau, also banned them from moving out of the local government until the committee set up to investigate the crisis finished its assignment. The suspension of the district heads according to the governor followed a petition written by Fulani leaders in Misau local government area who alleged the involvement of the leaders in illegal confiscation and distribution of land that ignited the Misau crisis. The governor said, “The Traditional rulers and some disgruntled elements either masterminded or actively participated in this crisis. “As a responsible government that has the safety and wellbeing of its people at hands, we will not fold our arms and watch the culprits go unpunished,” Governor Bala vows while suspending the Emir and the two district heads in Misau LGA. “We are therefore duty-bound to make sure that we identify those people and bring them to book. “This will surely serve as deterrence to others who have similar intention. “We must do everything to stop these sharp practices that were causing so much pain to the common people especially the Fulani people, because that is what is turning them into kidnappers, criminals; because they have lost their own identity”, the governor said. He added, “We are aware that this flagrant abuse of trust in the hands of local government chairmen administrations in various local governments and the traditional institutions and other security agents is being reported to us. “This evening, we will set up another committee to look at these issue”, the governor said. The governor said his administration would not spare anybody no matter how highly placed they are if they disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the state. The governor inaugurated a committee of inquiry headed by Retired Air Commodore Tijanni Baba Gamawa. The committee was given three weeks to submit its reports. Mohammed had earlier suspended Misau Local Government Care Taker Committee Chairman, Mohammed Yaro Gwaram, over the same communal clashes.