The presidency has said that the level and reach of the anti-corruption crusade so far reflected what the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) had left behind for President Muhammadu Buhari’s present administration. It added that President Buhari would not be deterred by baseless criticisms by the opposition in his determination to eradicate rampant, chronic corruption in the country. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Buhari Suspends EFCC Boss, Ibrahim Magu Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, made this known in a statement on Tuesday. READ ALSO: Presidency Breaks Silence On Magu’s Suspension, Says No Sacred Cows In Anti-Corruption War Shehu, who was fielding questions from State House correspondents on issues raised by the PDP since the beginning of the suspended acting EFCC Chairman, Ibrahim Magu’s interrogation, said corruption had become so normalised by the PDP that they had difficulty defining what is “corruption” and “theft”. “They had large number of cases they did not investigate and prosecute. The current administration is handling many of the cases that the PDP should have dealt with and the new ones as they arise,” he said. Shehu also cautioned the PDP to allow the process of investigation and prosecution to work instead of being preemptive about ongoing cases and unduly agitating the public. He also expressed hope that the Judiciary would deal with the cases swiftly and satisfactorily, in a manner that would deter other would-be offenders. Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee against Corruption, Prof Itse Sagay (SAN), on Tuesday disclosed that he had advised against the appointment of some the people into the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), but that his counsel was disregarded. He also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack all top management staff involved in financial recklessness in the Commission. READ ALSO: It’s A Pity Judiciary Hasn’t Been Fellow Fighter In Anti-Corruption War – Itse Sagay Sagay who spoke on Channels TV’s Politics Today, said, “I don’t know the way some appointments are made. When some of these appointment were to be made I spoke in my private capacity because we weren’t consulted at PACAC. “I said one or two of them were not fit for the responsibilities they were about to be given but they were still appointed. And now we are seeing the result. The whole place is in a total mess, accusations and counter accusations, we are talking of billions and very frightening”, READ ALSO: ‘I slapped Akpabio Because He Was Sexually Harassing Me,’ Ex NDDC MD, Nunieh Says The Senate had set up an Ad-hoc committee probing the alleged financial recklessness to the sum of N40bn by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the NDDC between January and March this year. This led to allegations and counter allegations of misappropriation and misconducts between a former acting managing director of the Commission, Dr. Joy Nunieh and the Niger Delta affairs minister, Godswill Akpabio. READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD Sagay said allegations of financial recklessness in the Commission had given the Niger Delta region a bad name and everyone involved in the case under probe should be fired. He said, “What worries me is that the rest of the country will say ‘well, we have sympathy for your condition, we made provisions for you hut your own people have spoilt everything.’ It gives a bad name to the Niger Delta I must say”, Sagay said. Calling on president Buhari to sack everyone involved in the ongoing probe, Sagay said the president could appoint new set of people to have a board and order a forensic audit of the commission. “I think the first thing the president has to do is to clear all the people involved out. The president should appoint a new set of people temporarily so that a permanent board and  management can be established in the place that can be monitored. “I do not see why a forensic auditing cannot take place when you have a regular board in place. I don’t see the point of having this temporal board which is an anomaly, which has proven to be such a disaster. My view is everybody should be removed. Sweep it clean.”