Police in New York, the United States of America, have arrested a suspect in the murder of Fahim Saleh, the 33-year- old founder and Chief Executive of the Lagos based motorcycle taxi business, GOKADA. Police arrested Saleh’s personal assistant, 21-year-ld Tyrese Devon Haspel who is expected to be charged with second degree murder and other crimes. Saleh’s dismembered body was found by his sister on Tuesday but police believe he was killed on Monday, with the killer returning to his $2.25 million Manhattan apartment on Tuesday to clean up the crime and decapitate Saleh’s remains. The suspect, police believe had to abandon the clean-up exercise after the tech entrepreneur’s sister appeared at the apartment. READ ALSO: GOKADA Nigeria CEO, Fahim Saleh Murdered She had gone to check on him after not hearing from him for about a day. What she found was a body with his legs and limps cut iff with a chain saw and parts of his body placed in plastic bags. Detectives believe the motive for the murder was because Saleh’s has discovered his assistant had stolen tens of thousands of dollars from him and was still killed despite not reporting the theft and setting up a repayment plan for the assistant to return the money. READ ALSO: Surveillance Camera Reveals GOKADA CEO, Fahim Saleh Was Trailed By Masked Man “Detectives believe that the motive for the killing stemmed from Mr. Saleh having discovered that the assistant had stolen tens of thousands of dollars from him, despite the fact that Mr. Saleh had not reported the man and had set up what amounted to a repayment plan for him to return the money, one of the officials said. Saleh was said to have been killed on Monday, a day before his dismembered remains was found in his apartment. “Investigators have also concluded that Mr. Saleh was killed on Monday, the day before his body was found, and that the killer used his employer’s credit card to pay for a car to a Home Depot, on West 23rd Street in Manhattan, to buy cleaning supplies to sanitize the crime scene, the official said. The killer returned to Mr. Saleh’s apartment the next day to dismember the body and clean up the crime scene. READ ALSO: Some Facts About Life And Death Of Fahim Saleh, GOKADA CEO Saleh set up Gokada, a motorcycle taxi that uses an app to hail an operator in Nigeria back in 2018. The Lagos State Government however placed a ban on commercial motorcycles in February 2020 forcing the company to lay off staff. The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has threatened to ban those who flout safety guidelines put in place by the federal government to curb the spread of COVID-19 from using its facilities. FAAN had complained about how former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari and Adamawa State governor, Umaru Fintiri with eight others in his entourage flouted COVID-19 safety rules in the airports. In a statement shared via its official twitter page on Friday, FAAN again condemn Yari and Fintiri for their irresponsible behaviour that jeopardizes the safety of other travellers, threatening to bar whoever refuses to adhere strictly to health safety protocols from flying. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Ex-Governor Yari Allegedly Flouts Airport Safety Protocol, Says He’s VIP “As a responsible institution of the Federal Government of Nigeria, FAAN holds all officials of state in high esteem, and accords them all the courtesies their status deserves. Therefore, FAAN has no personal issues with Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari and Governor Fintiri. “We are merely implementing our  standard operating procedures (SOPs) to assure the success of our Security and Public health Protocols. “The  protocols flouted by both personalities were duly approved by the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Governor Fintiri Also Shuns Airport Safety Guidelines “They were intended to protect all airport users, and to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.  By their actions, the two personalities put at risk not only themselves, but also other airport users. “These protocols are now part of the new normal all over the world, and no person, no matter how highly placed, is exempted from them, else he would be denied access to our facilities”, the statement reads in part. FAAN urged everyone to comply with safety protocols, adding that those in leadership positions (VIPs) should show good example by adhering to safety protocols. “FAAN wishes to restate the need for all air travelers to strictly adhere to the security, Public health and operational protocols put in place to make air travel in the country safe, secure, and efficient, especially in the midst of this pandemic. “Our esteemed Government officials and other Very Important Personalities (VIP) should not only comply with the rules, but provide leadership for other air travelers, by projecting good conduct, and protecting public safety. FAAN will continue to enforce the protocols, and advise all air travelers to adhere strictly to same”, the statement reads.