Governor Nasir el-rufai of Kaduna State on Saturday announced that public servants in the state would resume work on July 20. El-rufai, who disclosed this via his Kaduna State government’s Twitter page on Saturday, said resumption would be in strict compliance to COVID-19 safety protocols. He said, “Public servants in Kaduna State will resume on Monday, 20 July 2020, with strict compliance to Covid-19 protocols. The governor said offices would open by 9am and close by 3pm, adding that the public servants on grade level 14 would to work three days in a week, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays while grade level 7-13 officers would work only on Tuesdays and Thursdays. READ ALSO: EL-Rufai Lifts Kaduna Lockdown, Reopens Worship Places “Grade Levels 14 and above will be in their offices Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while Grade Level 7 to 13 will resume on Tuesdays and Thursdays, from 9am-3pm. “Chief executives of MDAs may declare the services of any of their officers as essential and direct their office days and working hours accordingly”, el-rufai said. READ ALSO: Guidelines For Re-Opening Kaduna State Out Soon – Nasir el-Rufai This development is coming after the governor announced gradual easing of COVID-19 lockdown in Kaduna State last month. So far, Kaduna State has recorded 1,099 cases of COVID-19, 829 COVID-19 patients have been treated and discharged, while 12 deaths have been record as a result of COVID-19. The Federal Government has commenced the evacuation of 212 Nigerians from Cyprus. Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, who disclosed this via his official Twitter page on early on Saturday, said the evacuees would to arrive Abuja on Saturday. He added that the flight, a Turkish Airline, which departed Cyprus will arrive at  Abuja by 15:05 pm. “EVACUATION UPDATE: @TurkishAirlines flight TK 4915 conveying 212 Nigerian evacuees from Cyprus, has departed for Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. The flight is expected to arrive Abuja at 15:05 pm local time today, 18th July, 2020”, Onyeama said. READ ALSO: FG Evacuates 268 Nigerians Stranded In China Among the evacuees are Nigerian students in Cyprus, some Nigeria professionals in Turkey and few Nigerian professional footballers. “Some of the evacuees are Nigerian students from Cyprus, Nigerian professionals in Turkey and few Nigerian professional footballers”, Onyeama said. READ ALSO: FG To Evacuate More Nigerians From US The Nigerian government has been making efforts over the past few months to bring back Nigerians who are stranded in the Diaspora. The interview had earlier reported how the Nigerian government evacuated Nigerians in the UK, US, and UAE a few weeks ago.