A former first lady of Kwara State, Toyin Saraki, has called on Kwara State governor, Abdurahaman Abdulrazaq, to warn his supporters to desist from attacking her personality in the social media A twitter user, @omoalhajilorin, had uploaded Mrs. Saraki and her husband’s photo on twitter, calling them family members of popular Nigerian Instagram celebrity (Hushpuppi) who was recently arrested in Dubai for internet fraud. The Kwara State governor and other people were tagged in the tweet. READ ALSO: Hushpuppi Could Spend 20 Years In Jail – US Department Of Justice Apparently outraged by the tweet, Mrs. Saraki expressed disappointment in the tweet and went ahead to call on the state governor who was tagged in the tweet to caution his followers. “Highly disappointed to see this astonishing example of irresponsible fake news and deliberately defamatory disinformation being spread by the openly tagged social media stable of HE Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq @RealAARahman & Rafiu Ajakaye @rafiuajakaye. “I would certainly hope that after this, I will not have cause to re-issue my cease and desist warning to Kwara Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, to ensure that his ‘loving supporters’ stop their repulsive and malicious targeting of my person, in their social media falsehoods”, Mrs. Saraki said. Mrs. Saraki said there was a need to curb irresponsible social media users using public figures to spread misinformation, adding that “all social media aware citizens should devote themselves to positive social and behavioural change communications in the common quest of saving lives. “Interestingly, on Monday this week, I had discussed the need to curb the nefarious scourge of irresponsible social media operators using the likenesses of public figures in spreading misinformation. “Rather, they should work towards repairing the sound moral values for which Kwarans are known. The spirit and good nature of the people of Kwara should be a guiding light for its leadership. “Indeed, as Kwara State, and the rest of Nigeria struggles to combat and contain the loss of lives to #COVID19, I would expect all social media aware citizens to devote themselves to positive social and behavioural change communications in the common quest of saving lives”, Mrs. Saraki said. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has explained why he stopped the police from arresting the Immediate Past Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission(NDDC), Dr. Joi Nunieh from her home. Wike, who described attempt to arrest Nunieh in her home in the early hours of Thursday as a disgrace, said police would not be used as a tool for intimidation in Rivers State. In a statement by Paulinus Nsirim, Rivers State Commissioner of Information, on Thursday, Wike said that using the police to carry out abduction of citizens should not be encouraged. READ ALSO: NDDC: Police Are Coming After Me While The Man Who Stole The Money Is At Home – Nunieh He stated, “What has happened today is a disgrace. Who knows what would have happened to her if they had gained access to her main room. I went there personally to see things for myself and rescued her. “She is supposed to testify before the House of Representatives Committee and here we are having armed men wanting to abduct her. “We came out to protect our daughter and we will do so to every Rivers citizen. That is the oath of office I swore to.  It doesn’t matter the political affiliation. We will not allow anybody to destroy Rivers state. “They didn’t have a warrant of arrest, but would storm somebody’s house, in fact, the State Commissioner of Police is not aware. READ ALSO: BREAKING: President Buhari Speaks On NDDC Corruption Saga “So, tell me how something will happen in a state and the Commissioner of Police is not aware. They said it’s the Inspector General Monitoring Unit. “So, we have such a Unit taking over the responsibility of crime fighting in a state and the Commissioner of Police is not aware.  I can also assume too that the Inspector General of Police is not aware. He should investigate it”. Wike who said he would not allow Nunieh be treated as a common criminal also noted that he would also not support her if there were allegations of crime against her, adding that Rivers State should not be taking for granted. “If there is any allegation of crime against her, I will not back her, but you can’t kill her for no established crime. I don’t know who’s responsible, but whoever is behind it should not take Rivers state for granted because we will fight back. READ ALSO: ‘I slapped Akpabio Because He Was Sexually Harassing Me,’ Ex NDDC MD, Nunieh Says “From what has happened now, I want to say that Rivers State is fully out. Anybody who is responsible for this attempted abduction of our daughter should know that enough is enough. “They can’t treat her as a common criminal. I am sure that President Muhammadu Buhari is not aware of this.” READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD Nunieh, who said she was to appear before the House of Representatives in Abuja on Thursday to make submissions to the panel probing the mismanagement of N40bn in the NDDC, has also narrated how armed policemen came about 4am, and attempted to break into her home to arrest her.