The Federal Government has commenced the evacuation of 212 Nigerians from Cyprus. Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, who disclosed this via his official Twitter page on early on Saturday, said the evacuees would to arrive Abuja on Saturday. He added that the flight, a Turkish Airline, which departed Cyprus will arrive at  Abuja by 15:05 pm. “EVACUATION UPDATE: @TurkishAirlines flight TK 4915 conveying 212 Nigerian evacuees from Cyprus, has departed for Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. The flight is expected to arrive Abuja at 15:05 pm local time today, 18th July, 2020”, Onyeama said. READ ALSO: FG Evacuates 268 Nigerians Stranded In China Among the evacuees are Nigerian students in Cyprus, some Nigeria professionals in Turkey and few Nigerian professional footballers. “Some of the evacuees are Nigerian students from Cyprus, Nigerian professionals in Turkey and few Nigerian professional footballers”, Onyeama said. READ ALSO: FG To Evacuate More Nigerians From US The Nigerian government has been making efforts over the past few months to bring back Nigerians who are stranded in the Diaspora. The interview had earlier reported how the Nigerian government evacuated Nigerians in the UK, US, and UAE a few weeks ago. Federal Government and West African Examination Council (WAEC) have again changed the period for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) to hold The examinations, originally scheduled to start on August 24, will now begin  on September 5, 2020. The Minister of State for Education, Honourable Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, announced the change of dates on Friday. READ ALSO: FG Stops WAEC, Reverses Course On School Resumption He said the changes came after a meeting between the Federal Government and officials of WAEC. He said school owners in the country had until July 29, 2020 to meet specific guidelines towards the reopening of schools at a date to be announced in due course. The minister was quoted in a statement by the Director of Information, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr. Ben Bem Goong, to have asked schools to undertake self-assessment and send feedback to state Ministries of Education, not later than July 29, 2020. He said, “Thereafter, consultations with relevant stakeholders will be held to review the situation and decide on a specific date for reopening or otherwise. READ ALSO: Schools To Resume August In Southwest
“We have consulted widely with stakeholders in the sector, including Commissioners of Education in all the states of the federation, the Association of Private School Owners of Nigeria,(APSON), National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools,(NAPPS), Provosts of Colleges of Education, Rectors of Polytechnics, Vice-Chancellors of Universities, some State Governors, and development partners.” He said, “On WAEC, we met with WAEC on Monday and have agreed to further consult with four other countries on new examination date. We appreciate the concern shown by all stakeholders and note the divergent views expressed on the matter. “Parents should be rest assured that the safety of our students and teachers is paramount as we work assiduously towards the speedy reopening of our schools for the exit classes to take external examinations.”