Italian Club, Napoli, on Friday completed the transfer of Nigeria Striker, Victor Osimhen from Lille. Napoli management made this announcement in a statement published on its websites on Friday. Osimhen, 21, who won the 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Chile with Nigeria and won the Golden Boot and Silver Ball awards in the same completion, will be playing with the Italian side next season. The Italian side expressed excitement in the signing of Osimhen, who netted 18 goals in his 38 appearances for Lille. The statement reads,”SSC Napoli are delighted to announce the signing of Victor Osimhen from Lille on a permanent transfer. “Osimhen came through the youth ranks at Ultimate Strikers Academy in Lagos and turned professional shortly after his 18th birthday when he joined Wolfsburg. “He spent the 2017/18 season in Germany before moving to Charleroi on loan the following year. He was an instant success in the Jupiler Pro League, netting 20 goals in 36 appearances. “Lille snapped him up in the summer of 2019 and he went on to play 38 times for the French side, bagging 18 goals in the process. “Osimhen helped Nigeria win the U17 World Cup in 2015, when he finished as the tournament’s top scorer with 10 goals. He made his full Nigeria debut in June 2017 and so far has 10 caps and four goals to his name.” Nigerian First Lady, Aisha Buhari, on Friday called on Muslims to imbibe the lessons of the festive period. Aisha, in her sallah message published via her official twitter page, expressed appreciation to Nigerians for complying to COVID-19 safety protocols. She said, “On this occasion of Eid el Adha, which signifies the spirit of sacrifice,  I wish to congratulate Nigerian muslims and charge them to imbibe the lessons of the period. “I wish to use this opportunity to thank Nigerians for respecting the protocols designed for COVID19, and to call on them to remain resolute in ensuring that the pandemic is controlled.” She urged Nigerians to make best use of Central Bank Of Nigeria’s financial support to boost their businesses in the COVID-19 period.