No fewer than 320 Emergency Health Workers that served in insurgency affected Local Government Areas of Borno are yet to be paid their three months outstanding allowance. They have therefore urged Federal and Borno state governments to assist them get their outstanding allowance. The over 300 health workers were recruited under the Health and Nutrition Emergency Response Project (HNERP) supported by Federal and Borno governments. In a press conference in Maiduguri on Sunday, the affected health workers led by  their Chairman,  Mr. Isaac Nsoha, and Secretary, Dr. Yusuf Usman, said the project was for one year but when the one year lapsed, they were asked by the state Director of the project, Dr. Babagana Shehu to continue and they did for three months but were yet to be paid for the three months. They said Shehu told them to continue, claiming that the state government was talking to federal government on extending the project to three years, but after three months without pay they had to stop. “The first contract expired last year around the 30th of November, 2019, and we were asked to continue working by the State coordinator of the project in the person of Dr Babagana Shehu; of which we were supervised throughout the three months, before we were asked to submit our Jackets on the 1st of March, 2020, that the program has been stopped.” They noted that they recipients of their services were mostly people leaving in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps who are in dire need of the intervention, adding that its not fair to deny health workers who made sacrifice to work in such volatile areas of their entitlements. When contacted on the development, the state Commissioner of Health, Dr. Salihu Kwaya-Bura, said the ministry was making effort to address the issue and that a communication on the issue was before the state governor. The emergency health workers include, doctors, nurses, pharmacists, medical records personnel, nutritionists, community health emergencies workers, medical laboratory scientists and technicians. The acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Delta Commssion (NDDC), Kemebradikumo Pondei, fainted on Monday during questioning by the lawmakers. Pondei appeared before a House of Representatives Committee probing the mismanagement of billions of naira in his agency. Efforts were made to revive him after which he was taken out of the meeting room. The session was later adjourned for 30 minutes. Read Also: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD Pondei appeared before the panel last Thursday, but stormed out of the session after he accused Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, chairman of the NDDC house committee of complicity in the fraud at the agency. He said the chairman could not preside over a case in which he was an accused. Tunji-Ojo withdrew from the session on Monday. READ ALSO: Akpabio Appears Before House Committee Probing NDDC Godswill Akpabio, minister of Niger Delta affairs, who appeared before the committee with Pondei, is still expected to testify before the panel. The panel is investigating the alleged mismanagement of N81.5bn by the interim management of the NDDC led by Pondei.