The Nigerian First Lady, Aisha Buhari, has said that late Ismaila Isa Funtua will be remembered for his role in President Muhammadu Buhari’s government in the last for years. Isa Funtua, a close associate of President Buhari, died of cardiac arrest on Monday. In her condolence message on Wednesday, Mrs. Buhari, said Funtua would be remembered for his support for women in politics. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Ismaila Isa Funtua Is Dead She said Funtua in the last four years supported female politicians in getting appointments in her husband’s government. “We pray that Allah SWT will grant him Aljannatul Firdaus. Mallam Ismaila Isa Funtua will be remembered for his support to female politicians, especially his role to get them appointed into different boards in the last 4 years”, Mrs. Buhari said. Mrs. Buhari sent her condolence message to Funtua’s widow, Mrs. Hauwa Isa Funtua and the entire Funtua family. READ ALSO: Isa Funtua’s Death Has Created Huge Gap – Buhari “On behalf of my family I extend our condolence to Mrs. Hauwa Isa Funtua and the entire family on the sudden death of Malam Ismaila Isa Funtua. May Allah grant his family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss”, Mrs. Buhari said. Funtua was founder and chairman of Bullet Construction, which built the Office of the Head of Service right next to the Federal Secretariat. He was also the publisher of the Democrat Newspaper, which was based in Kaduna. He was at a time, President of the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN). Funtua was buried on Tuesday according to Islamic rites. The Kano State Government has cancelled the traditional Sallah durbar led by the Emir of Kano during Eid celebration. Eid prayers are however not affected by the restrictions on the Sallah festivities. This was the decision taken by the Kano State Executive Council as part of the effort to consolidate on the successes achieved in the fight against COVID-19 in the state. The council, after deliberations at its weekly meetings at Africa House, Government House, Kano, however, granted the conduct of Eid congregational prayers across the state under strict observance of safety protocols, which are also to be supervised by government officials.