South South governors on Friday said they supported of the forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) as ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari. Allegations of massive corruption in the NDDC have come to the fore in the past week as lawmakers probe into how N40bn was recklessly squandered in the Commission between January and March, 2020. President Buhari on Thursday said he was determined to get to the root of fund mismanagement in the commission, urging the senate, security agencies and audit firms handling probing fund mismanagement in NDDC to be swift. READ ALSO: BREAKING: President Buhari Speaks On NDDC Corruption Saga In a statement published on his twitter page on Friday, Chairman of South-South governors’ forum, Ifeanyi Okowa, said the south governors’ forum supported forensic audit of NDDC, adding that it would help reposition the commission to focus on development of the region. Okowa, who is Delta State governor, said, “Alongside my brothers, the governors of the other South-South states, I have been monitoring the crisis in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) that has taken front and center stage in the national news. “After due consultations with the other governors, the South-South Governors Forum wishes to categorically state that we wholeheartedly support the forensic audit of the NDDC as ordered by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari. READ ALSO: Why I Rescued NDDC Ex-MD, Joi Nunieh From Police – Wike “This is because, we believe that the audit will help to reposition the NDDC to better deliver on its mandate for the good people of the Niger Delta region. Additionally, the South-South Governors Forum also gives its full backing to the investigation of the NDDC by the Senate. The forum also condemned the attempt by police to break into the home of former acting managing director of NDDC, Joi Nunieh, on Thursday. It said, “We are, therefore, constrained to condemn in unequivocal terms the attempt to abduct Ms. Joi Nunieh, the immediate past Acting MD of the Commission, yesterday. It was unwarranted, unnecessary, and uncalled for. READ ALSO: ‘I slapped Akpabio Because He Was Sexually Harassing Me,’ Ex NDDC MD, Nunieh Says “While we call on all the relevant security authorities to investigate this unfortunate development, let it be on record that we are neither in support of nor against any of the actors in this controversy. “However, as responsible public servants and leaders in the Niger Delta, we are mindful of the implications her attempted abduction could have on the peace and security of the region”, he said. Okowa advised all the stakeholders in the current crisis in the NDDC to refrain from utterances and actions that would breach the peace and security of the region. Police in New York, the United States of America, have arrested a suspect in the murder of Fahim Saleh, the 33-year- old founder and Chief Executive of the Lagos based motorcycle taxi business, GOKADA. Police arrested Saleh’s personal assistant, 21-year-ld Tyrese Devon Haspel who is expected to be charged with second degree murder and other crimes. Saleh’s dismembered body was found by his sister on Tuesday but police believe he was killed on Monday, with the killer returning to his $2.25 million Manhattan apartment on Tuesday to clean up the crime and decapitate Saleh’s remains. The suspect, police believe had to abandon the clean-up exercise after the tech entrepreneur’s sister appeared at the apartment. READ ALSO: GOKADA Nigeria CEO, Fahim Saleh Murdered She had gone to check on him after not hearing from him for about a day. What she found was a body with his legs and limps cut iff with a chain saw and parts of his body placed in plastic bags. Detectives believe the motive for the murder was because Saleh’s has discovered his assistant had stolen tens of thousands of dollars from him and was still killed despite not reporting the theft and setting up a repayment plan for the assistant to return the money. READ ALSO: Surveillance Camera Reveals GOKADA CEO, Fahim Saleh Was Trailed By Masked Man “Detectives believe that the motive for the killing stemmed from Mr. Saleh having discovered that the assistant had stolen tens of thousands of dollars from him, despite the fact that Mr. Saleh had not reported the man and had set up what amounted to a repayment plan for him to return the money, one of the officials said. Saleh was said to have been killed on Monday, a day before his dismembered remains was found in his apartment. “Investigators have also concluded that Mr. Saleh was killed on Monday, the day before his body was found, and that the killer used his employer’s credit card to pay for a car to a Home Depot, on West 23rd Street in Manhattan, to buy cleaning supplies to sanitize the crime scene, the official said. The killer returned to Mr. Saleh’s apartment the next day to dismember the body and clean up the crime scene. READ ALSO: Some Facts About Life And Death Of Fahim Saleh, GOKADA CEO Saleh set up Gokada, a motorcycle taxi that uses an app to hail an operator in Nigeria back in 2018. The Lagos State Government however placed a ban on commercial motorcycles in February 2020 forcing the company to lay off staff.