A former Nigerian sports minister, Bolaji Abdullahi, has said that the defeat the former Senator Bukola Saraki-led group suffered in the 2019 elections was inevitable, adding that even a chicken would have defeated their candidates in the elections. Abdullahi, who defected with the former senate president and contested the Peoples Democratic Party governorship primary, made this statement in an interview with Premium Times on Saturday. Abdullahi blamed the failure of the Saraki-led political group in the 2019 elections on their failure to listen to what people were saying. “I belong to a political group that is led by the former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, and the counter mobilisation that happened in 2019 was to send away all of us that belong to that political group. “It was many years in the making but for some reasons, we were not paying enough attention to what people were expressing and what they were not saying. “I think in 2019, if a chicken had been fielded against us, that chicken would have won. It was that bad. People somehow felt at that point that they had had enough of us, which is quite unfortunate, the situation we found ourselves in” Abdullahi said. He said the Saraki-led group was roundly defeated in both the senatorial and governorship elections because people were fed up. “Some people even won elections against us without leaving their sick bed. It was a case that people were fed up with us. People saw sufficient reasons to say ‘enough is enough’ (OTOGE). That was what happened. “For someone like me who wanted to become a governor in the last election but never got beyond the primaries, there are different interpretations to what happened but I don’t think that story is ripe to be told yet. But the truth was that, what happened in 2019 was inevitable”, Abdullahi said. The Taraba State Command of the Department of State Security Services, (DSS) on Friday paraded 45-year-old Ishaya Adamu Jonathan for parading himself as a very senior officer of the service and defrauding people in Gombe, Adamawa and Taraba states. The Taraba State Director of the Department of State Security Service, Alhaji Bashir Abubakar, while briefing journalists in Jalingo said Ishaya Adamu Jonathan was arrested in Ambairi hotel along Donga road in Jalingo, the state capital. He noted that the suspect was hiding in the hotel with his wife who was discovered to have married with deceit. The Taraba State Assistant State Director of the Department of State Security Service, S.A Balogun, who represented the state Director said that Ishaya had deceived the public that he had undergone several operations for the service which he claimed earned him accelerated promotion to the rank of Assistant Director. He said Ishaya lied to his victims including his wife that he was recently transferred from Gombe to Nassarawa State. “He was telling the lies in order to apparently cover up his fraudulent identity from his acclaimed wife and the general public. One of the recent victims of the suspect was a 55-year-old divorcee and mother of four who he met in Gombe State early this year and proposed a marriage with deceit. The marriage was purportedly solemnised by a mallam in Yola, Adamawa State in the absence of the affected woman”, he said. According to him, Jonathan who was Christian claimed to have converted to Islam and now bears Shaibu Adamu in order to fulfil one of the conditions offered as a prerequisite for the marriage. He was later discovered to have made away with several belongings of the purported wife to an elusive matrimonial apartment in Jalingo. Abubakar disclosed that the suspect deceitfully collected the woman’s Honda Odyssey vehicle with a promise to buy her a brand new Toyota car when received his leave allowance and other packages from the service. “He was telling the lies in order to apparently cover up his fraudulent identity from his acclaimed wife and the general public.”