Ronnie and Donnie Galyon, the world’s longest-surviving conjoined twins have died at the age of 68. Then Gaylon brothers who were born at St. Elizabeth Hospital in Dayton, Ohio, on October 28, 1951, to Wesley and Eileen Galyon, died on July 4. Ronnie and Donnie Galyon were joined at the abdomen from birth. They made Guinness World Records as oldest conjoined twins ever in 2014 after their 63rd birthday. According to Sky News, Ronnie and Donnie Galyon outlived Giacomo and Giovanni Battista Tocci, 63, and Chang and Eng Bunker, the world-famous 19th century conjoined twins who lived to be 62 years and 251 days old. Reports say the Galyon twins died on July 4 following a short stay in a hospice. The United States Government has said foreign students whose schools will be offering only on-line classes when they resume in September will have to leave the country or face deportation.
 
A number of universities including Harvard have already said they will be offering only online classes at the start of a new semester in September due to the outbreak of COVID-19. To avoid deportations, foreign students will have transfer to schools offering in-person classes according to a statement by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), an agency of the US Government. The ICE in a statement on Monday said, “The Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) announced modifications Monday to temporary exemptions for nonimmigrant students taking online classes due to the pandemic for the fall 2020 semester. “The U.S. Department of Homeland Security plans to publish the procedures and responsibilities in the Federal Register as a Temporary Final Rule.” According to the statement, “Nonimmigrant F-1 and M-1 students attending schools operating entirely online may not take a full online course load and remain in the United States. “The U.S. Department of State will not issue visas to students enrolled in schools and/or programs that are fully online for the fall semester nor will U.S. Customs and Border Protection permit these students to enter the United States.” “Active students currently in the United States enrolled in such programs must depart the country or take other measures, such as transferring to a school with in-person instruction to remain in lawful status. If not, they may face immigration consequences including, but not limited to, the initiation of removal proceedings.” The ICE said added, “Nonimmigrant students within the United States are not permitted to take a full course of study through online classes. If students find themselves in this situation, they must leave the country or take alternative steps to maintain their nonimmigrant status such as a reduced course load or appropriate medical leave.”