The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria have taken over assets owned by Deap Capital Management and Trust limited over debts amounting to N1.6bn. AMCON took over the company’s assets after a judgement by Hon. Justice J.T. Tshoho (as he then was) of the Federal High Court, Lagos division against Deap Capital Management and Trust Limited,. Hon. Justice A.M. Liman ofvthe same court further granted the Corporation leave to attach and sell traced properties of the Chief Promoter of the company, Mr. Emmanuel Ugboh over a distressing indebtedness, which now stands at over N1.6bN READ ALSO: AMCON Seizes Assets Of Doggi Group Over N440m Debt The court also ordered the forfeiture of the credit balances, monies and/or funds in the bank accounts of Mr. Ugboh in favour of AMCON and in satisfaction of the outstanding judgement sum per judgment of Justice Tsoho first delivered on January 28, 2015. AMCON took possession of three properties on July 1, 2020 through its Debt Recovery Agent – The law firm of Etonye & Etonye. The properties include those at No. 38, Dele Orisabiyi Street, Okota-Isolo, Lagos State, No. 75 Femi Kila Street (now renamed 75, Oba Kabiru Agbabiaka Street) Okota, Lagos State, and one located at No. 79 Femi Kila Street (now renamed 75, Oba Kabiru Agbabiaka Street), Lagos State. READ ALSO: N397bn Debt: AMCON Denies Demolishing Joseph Arumemi-Ikhide’s Ikoyi Property The case of Deap Capital Management and Trust Limited and its promoter has been a prolonged issue because the loan was purchased by AMCON during the first phase of Eligible Bank Assets (EBA) purchases from Zenith Bank and FCMB since 2011. AMCON engaged the company in a legal battle since 2012 and offered the obligor series of opportunities to negotiate his repayment to no avail. Due to the lack of adequate collateral, AMCON had to commence asset tracing on Mr. Emmanuel Ugboh, an exercise which revealed properties of the obligor situate in Lagos State, which the Corporation has now enforced upon, which is in line with Section 49 (1) & (2) of the AMCON Act 2019 (As Amended). Two top universities in the United States of America, Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on Wednesday sued the government of Donald Trump over its guidance not allowing foreign students to take online-only courses in the country starting from the September semester. Harvard had announced earlier in the  week that all course instructions would be delivered online, including for students living on campus. CNN quoted the university as saying the guidance would to affect some 5,000 international students. “The order came down without notice, its cruelty surpassed only by its recklessness. It appears that it was designed purposefully to place pressure on colleges and universities to open their on-campus classrooms for in-person instruction this fall, without regard to concerns for the health and safety of students, instructors, and others,” Harvard University President Larry Bacow said. READ ALSO: US Asks Foreign Students On Online Classes To Leave Visa requirements for students have always been strict and coming to the US to take online-only courses has been prohibited. Immigration and Customs Enforcement maintained that prohibition in its guidance, while providing some flexibility for hybrid models, meaning a mix of online and in-person classes. The agency suggested that students currently enrolled in the US consider other measures, like transferring to schools with in-person instruction. The lawsuit, filed in the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts, seeks to block the directive, arguing it violates the Administrative Procedures Act. The universities argue that ICE’s decision not to provide an exemption for online-only courses puts them in an “untenable situation” of either proceeding with their plans to operate fully or largely online or attempt to provide in-person learning.