Garba Shehu, senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, has said that Nigerians should prepared for surprises in the outcome of the probe of Ibrahim Magu, the suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Magu, who was arrested and detained for 10 days, faced a presidential panel headed by Justice Ayo Salami, former president of the Appeal Court. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Buhari Suspends EFCC Boss, Ibrahim Magu Speaking on Channels TV politics Today on Sunday, Shehu said the findings of the panel would surprise Nigerians, adding that he would not pre-empt the panel. “I am not going to pre-empt the panel investigation but I just advise Nigerians to hold their hearts in their hands. “By the time they are done with this job and they come out with the reports prepare yourselves for surprises. “I don’t know what will come out but if the sense we are getting from what is being done over there is anything to go by, I think that Nigerians should not be confused by any outbursts by anybody”, Garba said. READ ALSO: Ibrahim Magu Finally Granted Bail Before now the presidency had said Magu was suspended to allow unhindered investigation into a series of documented allegations were made against him. It also said that added that Magu was being availed the opportunity to defend himself and answer the allegations against him. President Muhammadu Buhari has extended wishes of a speedy recovery to Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, as he goes into isolation after testing positive to COVID-19. Onyeama had earlier on Sunday disclosed that his fourth CVOID-19 test returned positive and that he had gone into isolation in a health centre in line with National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines. In a statement by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the president on Media and Publicity, on Sunday, Buhari described Onyeama as a strong pillar of his administration, wishing him quick recovery from COVID-19. READ ALSO: Foreign Affairs Minister, Onyeama Tests Positive For COVID-19 “The country is eternally grateful to Geoffrey Onyeama for his diligence in attracting international support to Nigeria to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and boost the economy. I wish him speedy recovery,” Buhari said The president commended Onyeama for tirelessly working to stem the spread of Coronavirus in the country as a member of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, and ensuring  safety of Nigerians abroad. The NCDC update on Saturday shows that the number of the Coronavirus Disease in Nigeria now stands at 36,107, with 14,938 patients discharged and 778 deaths recorded.