The Director General of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Armstrong Idachaba, has said there are no plans to shut down Big Brother Naija in spite of media reports that he had been directed to do so by the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed. Reports of the minister’s directive first surface in a July 22 NBC management meeting when Idachaba informed other directors. Fears over the spread of COVID-19 are reportedly behind moves by the minister to take Big Brother Naija, a reality show produced by MultiChoice Nigeria, off air. MultiChoice Africa, is a pay TV service provider and has in recent years been at loggerheads with the Nigerian government over its charges and monopoly it enjoys over some content, particularly professional football in Europe. The fifth season of the Big Brother Naija show kicked off on July 20, 2020 and management of the NBC had reportedly given approval after measures were taken by the shows producers to adhere COVID-19 guidelines from health officials. In an exchange of letters earlier in the month, the show’s producers had reportedly explained to the NBC measures taken before the season began and why they weren’t in breach if COVID-19 protocols. Former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has for the second time dumped the People’s Democratic Party in favour of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He first left the PDP back in 2014 ahead of the general elections after which he was elected Speaker. Dogara would later rejoin the PDP in the lead up to the 2019 elections. Yobe governor, Mai Mala Buni, who doubles as the chairman of APC’s caretaker committee on Friday presented Dogara to President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House and later informed the press of the latest change in  party by the former speaker. Buki said, “We paid a courtesy call on the president in continuation of our effort to rebuild the party. We are here to see Mr. President and brief him on the development.” According to him, “The former speaker is a member of the APC. He is back because the reason he left the APC is no more there.” The Yobe governor said the president was happy with the development, adding that, “we are rebuilding the party and these are the steps we are taking towards rebuilding the party.” He said, “We will do justice to all our members and that’s what will bring peace and that is why will guarantee peaceful coexistence, that is what will bring the consolidation of the party, the rebuilding of the party. Without doing justice, you cannot achieve that and we are sure of doing justice to all our members. “We are rebuilding the party to outlive all of us. It’s not only about specific time or period, its not about election, its not about electioneering. It is about building a party.”