The Management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has condemned Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, and his entourage for flouting airport public health protocols as directed by the Federal Government. FAAN, in a statement via its twitter handle on Thursday, said Adamawa State governor and other eight persons in his entourage refused to have their temperature checked, contravening public health protocols as directed by the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Ex-Governor Yari Allegedly Flouts Airport Safety Protocol, Says He’s VIP The tweet reads: “The Management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) hereby strongly condemns the conduct of the Governor of Adamawa state Alh Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, who arrived Port Harcourt international Airport aboard aircraft on 14th July 2020 with 8 others, and who flagrantly refused to observe the Airport Security and Public Health protocols as directed by the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID19 by refusing to have his temperature checked, or being sanitised by the health officials. “His whole entourage of 8 did exactly as he did. The team that came to receive them drove right through the barricades up to the terminal building ignoring traffic and Aviation Security instructions”. READ ALSO: Passengers To Arrive Airport One and Half Hours Before Flight – Minister of Aviation FAAN described the governor refusal to obey COVID-19 safety guidelines as an irresponsible act that would endanger the lives of other travellers. “This irresponsible act endangers all other airport users, it is unacceptable, and as such it has also been duly escalated. FAAN hereby cautions all airport users, especially our esteemed VIPs, to please respect the Presidential directive by observing  airport Security, FAAN said. FAAN had on Wednesday called out a former governor of Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari, who flouted safety guidelines at Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on July 11, 2020 on the grounds that he was a VIP (Very Important Person). President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday urged the National Assembly, law enforcement agencies and audit firms currently probing into allegations of corruption in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to work with urgency and sense of purpose, saying his administration is determined to get to the root problem undermining the development of the Niger Delta. Allegations of massive corruption in the NDDC have come to the fore in the past week as lawmakers probe into how N40bn was recklessly squandered in the Commission between January and March, 2020. Buhari, in a series of tweets on Thursday, said his government was “determined to get to the root of the problem undermining the development of the Niger Delta, in spite of the enormous national resources dedicated to this annually. This administration remains committed to bringing rapid, even and sustainable development to the region.” READ ALSO: COVID-19: We Used N1.5bn To Care For Ourselves – NDDC MD The president urged all investigating agencies and auditing firms working with the National Assembly to probe into allegations of corruption in NDDC to work with urgency and sense of purpose, adding  that he is “determined to entrench transparency and accountability applies not only to the NDDC, but also to all other institutions of the Federal Government. We will not relent.” “All investigating agencies and auditing firms currently working collaboratively with National Assembly Committees to audit and reposition the NDDC must act with urgency and a sense of purpose, and ensure that I am kept informed of any and all actions being taken. READ ALSO: ‘I slapped Akpabio Because He Was Sexually Harassing Me,’ Ex NDDC MD, Nunieh Says “In line with this, I have made it clear to the National Assembly and our investigating and law enforcement agencies to pursue better coordination in their work, so that the shared goal of ensuring sanity, transparency and accountability of dedicated funds can be achieved,” Buhari said.