Human rights activists and legal advocate, Femi Falana, has denied been involved in a new political party, the National Consultative Front (NCF) floated by some notable Nigerians. He however also hinted plans to launch his own political platform saying, “At the appropriate time, we shall come before Nigerians to present the new platform which would be predicated upon pro-masses oriented anti-poverty programme, and hopefully, the founders of the new intiative will be proud not to be left out.” Names that have been linked to the party include Oby Ezekwesili,  Prof. Pat Utomi and  Obaidal Mailafia. Other like Olisa Agbakoba, like Falana have denied been part of the political party. While commending all efforts aimed at creating an alternative platform, Falana said in a statement that he also recognised the fact that some of the promoters of the NCF were people motivated by the common good. Many of them, he said, had made profound sacrifices to make Nigeria a better place to live. He added, “In this light I commend what appears to be the genuine motive of the organisers of the National Consultative Forum. “However, I observe that my name has been mentioned as one of the pillars behind this initiative. While I appreciate the concern of the leadership of the new group to enlist my support, I wish to say that at no time have I been consulted neither did I attend the meeting where the forum was launched.” He said, “I appreciate the almost desperate situation progressive Nigerians find themselves in the bid to save Nigeria from what looks like an imminent shipwreck. This might  have informed the haste with which many honest and dedicated hands find themselves. “This clarification should not be conceived as opposition to all honest efforts designed to rescue Nigeria from the claws of abject poverty and increasing loss of hope. I wish to add that there are several efforts I have been involved lately and I believe there is a growing perspective that all efforts should be harmonised for maximum impact.” President Muhammadu Buhari has approved renewal of the appointments of 12 non-career ambassadors. Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, made this known in a statement on Thursday. Shehu said in the statement that the president had assured Nigerians of fairness in representation and inclusiveness in all matters of governance following complaints on the 41 non-career ambassadors appointed by the president on Wednesday in which some states had no slot. READ ALSO: Buhari Nominates Former Guardian Editor, Adesina, 41 Others As Ambassadors “The assurance from the President became necessary following recent complaints after announcement of 41 non-career ambassadors that some states were not captured. “The renewal of the appointments followed a performance evaluation, which necessitated an approval for continuation in office of the ambassadors, and the President will still decide if they will remain in their current postings”, Shehu said. The ambassadors whose appointments were renewed are: 1.    Mrs. Uzoma E. Emenike (Abia)
2.   Yusuf M. Tuggar (Bauchi)
3.   Muhammad B. Madugu (Bauchi)
4.   Amb. Baba Ahmad Jidda (Borno)
5.    Uyigue O. Oghogho (Edo)
6.   Dr. Eniola Ajayi (Ekiti)
7.    Deborah S. Iliya (Kaduna)
8.   Mohammed D. Rimi (Katsina)
9.   Prof. Tijjani Muhammad-Bande (Kebbi)
10. Dr Modupe E. Irele (Lagos)
11. Adeyinka Asekun (Ogun)
12. Sen. Goni Modu Zanna Bura (Yobe)