Embattled acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, who was suspended from office last week has been released from detention. Magu was arrested on July 6 and has been in detention since then answering questions bordering on corruption and insubordination from a presidential panel led by Justice Ayo Salami. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Buhari Suspends EFCC Boss, Ibrahim Magu The arrest came after Abubakar Malami, the Attorney General of the Federation wrote a memo to President Muhammadu Buhari accusing Magu of several acts of corruption. The presidential probe has centred around how the Commission has managed recovered assets. READ ALSO: Presidency Breaks Silence On Magu’s Suspension, Says No Sacred Cows In Anti-Corruption War He has appeared before the panel every day since July 6 and after his suspension last week, Mohammaded Umar, a director of operations at the EFCC, was named acting chairman of the commission. The probe has led to the questioning of several of his top aides and directors at the Commission, some of whom are now reported to have also been suspended. The management of Federal Aviation Authority of Nigeria has described the refusal of former governor of Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari, as an irresponsible act that endangers the lives of other travellers. In a statement shared on its official twitter page on Wednesday, the management of FAAN said Yari blatantly violated the Public Health procedures on travels at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on July 11, 2020. The statement reads, “The Management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) hereby strongly condemns the conduct of the former Governor of Zamfara State, Alh. Abdulaziz Yari who blatantly violated the Public Health procedures (#COVID19)on travels at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on Saturday 11th July 2020.” READ ALSO: Passengers To Arrive Airport One and Half Hours Before Flight – Minister of Aviation FAAN said Yari forcefully pushed the staff who insisted that his luggage must be disinfected before boarding, saying he was a VIP. “He(Yari) refused to adhere to the protocols and procedures put in place by the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID19 by forcefully pushing away an officer of the Environment department when he insisted that his luggage must be disinfected. “The former Governor said the officer should have known he is a VIP.  This irresponsible act endangers all other airport users, it is unacceptable, and as such it has been duly escalated”, the statement reads. FAAN urged all airport users, especially our esteemed VIPs , to adhere to the Presidential directive by observing the Public Health travel protocols put in place to protect all air travellers against infection and the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic.