President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to sign the revised 2020 Appropriation Bill on Friday according to a statement from the office of the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan. Quoting the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, the statement released by the Special Assistant to the Senate President, Ezrel Tabiowo, said the government would stick to the January-December budget cycle and as such, the President will on Friday sign the revised N10.8trn budget for the year 2020 into law. The minister was reportedly briefing the principal officers of the National Assembly, which included the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. READ ALSO: How We ‘ll Spend N2.3trn COVID-19 Stimulus Funds – FG She said, “This for us is a journey towards ensuring that the progress that we have made as a collective to return the fiscal year to January – December is maintained for the 2021 budget as well. The President has directed that we must deliver the budget to the National Assembly by the end of September.” She said the government’s revenue between January and May 2020 was N1.48 trn, an amount representing 56 per cent of the target. READ ALSO: COVID-19: FG Seeks Upfront Tax Payments From Corporations She said oil revenues accounted for N701.6 bn; non-oil tax revenues N439.32bn; Companies Income Tax (CIT) and Value Added Tax (VAT) collections – N213.24bn and N68.09bn; and Customs collection N158bn, respectively. Other revenues, she said amounted to N339.51bn, of which Independent revenues was N80.22bn. Recoveries and Stamp duty collected during the period are yet to be booked in the fiscal accounts. The House of Representatives on Thursday was the venue of a minor diplomatic incident when the Lebanese Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Houssam Diab, walked out on members during a metting. Diab was there to honour an invitation from the House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Affairs but shortly after arriving he walked out of the meeting room because of the presence of the media. The meeting was called to address the mistreatment of Nigerians in Lebanon, particularly the case of Temitope Arowolo who is on trial for murder. The meeting that was to hold with the ambassador had in attendance the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Zubairu Dada and the Director-General of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, Julie Okah-Donli. Reacting to the walk-out, the Chairman of the House Diaspora Committee, Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, expressed shock that the ambassador would simply walk out on the committee.