The former Minister of National Planning, Dr. Shamsuddeen Usman, has joined the Dantiye Centre for Good Leadership and Journalism (DCLJ) as an economic and regional adviser. The announcement was made on Thursday in a letter signed by the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of DCLJ, Emeritus Professor Munzali Jibril. According to the letter signed by Professor Jibril, the decision to appoint Usman as the Honorary Economic and Regional Adviser of DCLJ was taken because of his “contributions to the economic development and stability of Nigeria and countries in the West African sub-region” and also because of his passion for service. He said he hoped that Usman, who was also Nigeria’s Finance Minister between 2007 and 2009, would use his vast experience to continue to mentor young people and “tackle the multifarious development problems” facing the country and the continent. DCLJ is a non-governmental, not-for-profit organisation, with a coterie of professionals, set up to promote good leadership and excellent journalism. Jibril said in spite of the current turmoil facing the world, these were also exciting times to welcome Usman as the DCLJ was forging partnerships to seize new opportunities to deepen citizen engagement, capacity building, peace, stability and development in the country and across the sub-region. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 664 new cases of COVID-19 taking the number of confirmed cases closer to 32,000. The NCDC’s update on Saturday showed the exact number of confirmed cases to be 31,987 with 13,103 discharged and 724 deaths recorded from the pandemic. READ ALSO: As COVID-19 Deaths Hit 709, Lagos Reports New High Of 224 Single Day Cases At least 18 states reported new cases of the Coronavirus disease on Saturday. Lagos State reported the highest number of new cases with 224, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 105 and Edo had 85 new cases. READ ALSO: More Than 30,000 Cases Of COVID-19 Confirmed In Nigeria In Ondo State, there 64 new cases, 32 in Kaduna State, 27 in Imo State, 19 in Osun State and 17 each in Plateau, Oyo and Ogun states. Rivers State recorded 14 new cases, Delta State had 11, Adamawa State had 10, Enugu State had seven, Nassarawa State had six, while Gombe, Abia and Ekiti states had three new cases each.