After reporting 460 new cases of COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says there are now 30,249 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease in the country. The NCDC said on Wednesday in its daily update that 12,373 had so been been discharged and 684 deaths recorded, an increase from 669 from the previous day. READ ALSO: 15 More Die From COVID-19 Complications The number of new cases in Lagos once again topped the list with 150, followed by Rivers with 49 cases. READ ALSO: COVID-19 Cases In Lagos Rise To 11,045 In Oyo State, there 43 new cases, while Delta State had 38. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported 26 new cases, Anambra and Kano states recorded 20 cases each. READ ALSO: Kwara State CoS Dies Of COVID-19 Plateau State had 18 cases, Edo State had 14, Bayelsa and Enugu states had 13 each, while Osun State had 12. Kwara State recorded 10 new cases, Borno State had eight, Ogun State had seven, Kaduna State had six, Imo State had four, Bauchi and Gombe states had three each, Niger State had two and Adamawa State had one case. The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria have taken over assets owned by Deap Capital Management and Trust limited over debts amounting to N1.6bn. AMCON took over the company’s assets after a judgement by Hon. Justice J.T. Tshoho (as he then was) of the Federal High Court, Lagos division against Deap Capital Management and Trust Limited,. Hon. Justice A.M. Liman ofvthe same court further granted the Corporation leave to attach and sell traced properties of the Chief Promoter of the company, Mr. Emmanuel Ugboh over a distressing indebtedness, which now stands at over N1.6bN READ ALSO: AMCON Seizes Assets Of Doggi Group Over N440m Debt The court also ordered the forfeiture of the credit balances, monies and/or funds in the bank accounts of Mr. Ugboh in favour of AMCON and in satisfaction of the outstanding judgement sum per judgment of Justice Tsoho first delivered on January 28, 2015. AMCON took possession of three properties on July 1, 2020 through its Debt Recovery Agent – The law firm of Etonye & Etonye. The properties include those at No. 38, Dele Orisabiyi Street, Okota-Isolo, Lagos State, No. 75 Femi Kila Street (now renamed 75, Oba Kabiru Agbabiaka Street) Okota, Lagos State, and one located at No. 79 Femi Kila Street (now renamed 75, Oba Kabiru Agbabiaka Street), Lagos State. READ ALSO: N397bn Debt: AMCON Denies Demolishing Joseph Arumemi-Ikhide’s Ikoyi Property The case of Deap Capital Management and Trust Limited and its promoter has been a prolonged issue because the loan was purchased by AMCON during the first phase of Eligible Bank Assets (EBA) purchases from Zenith Bank and FCMB since 2011. AMCON engaged the company in a legal battle since 2012 and offered the obligor series of opportunities to negotiate his repayment to no avail. Due to the lack of adequate collateral, AMCON had to commence asset tracing on Mr. Emmanuel Ugboh, an exercise which revealed properties of the obligor situate in Lagos State, which the Corporation has now enforced upon, which is in line with Section 49 (1) & (2) of the AMCON Act 2019 (As Amended).