The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has created a Digital Economy Department  for implementing programmes and policies aimed at fully supporting and promoting the national digital economy agenda of the Federal Government. The director of public affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, said in a statement on Tuesday that the Governing Board of the Commission approved the creation of the new department at its last meeting. He said the departmen was strategically and structurally placed under the Office of the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta. According to the statement, Danbatta described the creation of the new department as being in line with the Commission’s strategy to create a dedicated team, with the sole responsibility of giving necessary push to the promotion of digital economy vision of the Federal Government being driven by the Hon. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami. Danbatta said, “Placing the newly-created department under the Office of the EVC also underscores the importance the Commission places on the need to successfully drive the overall national digital economy strategy of the government through ensuring its effective monitoring and supervision.” The Broadband Implementation Unit in the Commission, hitherto placed under the Special Duties Department and all the staff of the Unit, are to move to the newly-created Digital Economy Department. Engr. Babagana Digima, an Assistant Director in the Special Duties Department has been moved and designated as the pioneer Head of the new department. The digital economy policy document has eight pillars, which include: Developmental Regulation, focusing on effective regulation of the ICT and digital sector in a way that enables development. The second, Digital Literacy and Skills, which speaks to the provision of policy backing for massive training of Nigerians from all works of life in order to enable them obtain digital literacy and other digital skills. This pillar will also facilitate the training of Nigerians. The third pillar is Solid Infrastructure. Digital Services Development and Promotion is the sixth pillar. The seventh pillar is Digital Society and Emerging Technologies. The eight pillar of NDEPS is Indigenous Content Development and Adoption. The Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has said that it’s Kano Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, who was caught pocketing dollars that should be isolated, not him. Ganduje, who chairs All Progressive Congress (APC) Campaign Council for Edo State governorship election, had said, “We know the PDP made Wike their chairman. I assure you; we will isolate Wike in an isolation centre and before he recovers, the election is over.” However, speaking during the inauguration of the PDP campaign council on Tuesday, Wike, who is the Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) National Campaign Council for the Edo State Governorship Election, responded to Gabduje’s statement, Wike said he would not be intimidated. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Governor Wike To Head Obaseki’s Campaign “Nobody can intimidate us in this election. Yesterday, I was told and today I read on the pages of newspapers that one Governor Ganduje said that he is going to isolate me until the election is over”, Wike said. He stated that if Nigeria was working Ganduje should be isolated and not him adding that the people would reject APC in the Edo State election. “If Nigeria is supposed to be a country, who is supposed to be isolated? A man who pockets dollars in babanriga from contractors is not isolated and you say that I should be isolated. In this country, where are we heading to? “Let me tell you why they (APC) made Ganduje the chairman of the campaign council; it is because of the dollars they saw. “But what he doesn’t understand is that we are from the Niger Delta; we shall chop his dollar and we will chop him to a coma. So, Ganduje, your dollar will not work in Edo State, we have integrity in our party”, Wike said.