Secondary schools in Nigeria will reopen on August 4, to enable exit students to take West African Examinations (WAEC) 2020. This was disclosed in a statement by ministry of education on Monday. The statement signed by Ben Bem Goong, Director, Press and Public Relations, said, “Secondary schools in the country are to reopen as from the 4th of August, 2020 for exit classes only. “Students will have two weeks within which to prepare for the West African Examinations (WAEC) due to start on the 17th of August, 2020”. READ ALSO: FG To Reopen Schools For Final Year Students, Lifts Ban On Interstate Travel It added that the decision to reopen schools for final year secondary school students to take this year’s WAEC was unanimously reached at a virtual meeting between minister of education, Adamu Adamu, state commissioners of education and Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) and private schools and executives of WAEC on Monday. “These were the unanimous decisions reached today at a virtual consultative meeting between the Federal Ministry of Education, Honourable Commissioners of Education of the 36 states, the Nigerian Union of Teachers, (NUT), the proprietors of private schools, and Chief Executives of examination bodies. “It was agreed that the exit classes should resume immediately after the Sallah break, from the 4th of August, 2020 to enable them prepare for the WAEC examinations scheduled to commence from the 17th of August, 2020. READ ALSO: FG Stops WAEC, Reverses Course On School Resumption “The meeting also resolved that a passionate appeal be made to the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 and public spirited Nigerians for assistance to schools across the country to enable them fast track the preparations for safe reopening, as agreed. The statement noted that, “Another meeting is to be convened tomorrow between the Federal Ministry of Education and Chief Executives of examination bodies namely, NECO, NABTEB and NBAIS to harmonise their examination dates, which will be conveyed to stakeholders expeditiously by the Federal Ministry of Education.” There has been a significant level of confusion on the part of the Nigerian government regarding when it’s safe to reopen schools in the country which have been closed since March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has approved massive deployment of personnel across the nation’s roads in preparation for Eid el Kabir. Oyeyemi directed Commanding Officers to collaborate with COVID-19 Task Force teams and security agencies to ensure maximum compliance with established laws, orders and  directives on physical distancing, compulsory use of face mask and restrictions of movement across states. In a statement by Bizi Kazeem, the Corp Public Education Officer,  FRSC said the special patrol would commence from July 22, to July 30, 2020. Oyeyemi, according to the statement gave the directive in an operational order released to field Commands where the Corps Marshal maintained that massive deployment of personnel to ensure free flow of traffic, prompt removal of obstructions and timely rescue services in the event of any road traffic crash are critical to the realisation of a safe motoring environment during the season and beyond. READ ALSO: FRSC Boss Seeks For Safer Roads During Ramadan The Corps Marshal outlined the modus operandi for a successful 2020 Eid-el-kabir celebration and gave Commanding Officers marching orders to enforce without compromise all established laws and orders on safe road use. While charging them on the need to give maximum effect to Presidential Orders, Oyeyemi revealed that the objectives of the special patrol is to achieve among others, the following; Compliance with protocol and guidelines set up by the various states with respect to COVID-19, ensure that the Presidential Orders on interstate travels and restrictions are diligently enforced with all sense of professionalism and civility and curtail the occurrence of Road Traffic Crashes within the period and provide prompt rescue services, when necessary. Other targets include ensuring full deployment of patrol vehicles, ambulances, tow trucks, bikes and other patrol equipment and to collaborate with security agencies to ensure effective traffic management, increased visibility on the highways, and strict enforcement of overloading and physical distancing violations  amongst commuters. READ ALSO: How FRSC Officials Rescued Pregnant Driver In Labour Kazeem quoting Oyeyemi said, “He warned that the special patrol was necessitated by the upsurge in road traffic volume and the rise in COVID-19 cases Nationwide. The strategies deployed are anchored on achieving a decline in transmission of the virus amongst commuters and the need to mitigate the attendant risks of road traffic crashes. “As such, the Corps Marshal further instructed Commanding Officers to apprehend any vehicle caught in the act of overloading their vehicles with both persons and goods. The traffic offenders are to be prosecuted in the already established mobile courts across the federation.” The Corp Marshal called on all Nigerians to be at alert, cautious and exhibit required road discipline before, during and after the celebrations.