The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved a Youth Investment Fund in the value of N75bn. The FEC gave the approval at Wednesday’s 8th virtual session presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. It’s a ‘youth bank’ to support Nigerian youths with entrepreneurial skills, according to the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare. The country has an estimated 68million youth population in the age bracket of 18 to 35 years. READ ALSO: How We ‘ll Spend N2.3trn COVID-19 Stimulus Funds – FG Dare, who spoke with State House Correspondents after the meeting, explained that access to the fund would be through the 125 micro credit banks in the country. He added that the criteria for accessing the funds by those with the requisite qualifications would be set out accordingly. He added that the process would be digitalised like the existing N-Power programme for fresh graduates. READ ALSO: States To Receive $1.5bn World Bank Stimulus By September Dare gave details, “For the first time in the history of Nigeria, the Federal Executive Council today approved the establishment of the Nigerian Youth Investment Fund (NYIF) to the tune of N75bn. “This fund is meant to create a special window for accessing credit facilities and financing on the part of our youths that will help to fund their ideas, innovations and also support their enterprise. “The best way to call it is that for the first time the country will have a youth bank. A fund that will cater specifically for our youth within the stipulated age band, which is going to be between 18 and 35 years. “The second approval secured was for the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to play a lead role in working on necessary steps that need to be taken in terms of legislation, organisation and other aspects of financing. “The Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning will take the lead when it comes to the aspect of financing, working with the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and other relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies. “A couple of other details will be released later, but I think the most important thing is that the N75bn NYIF, to cater specifically for this target group, a population of over 68 million, got the attention and support of the FEC today and this fund will be assessed by our youths, once they are able to present their ideas, they can assess this fund directly.” The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, on Wednesday ridiculed a member of House of Representatives, James Faleke, saying Faleke is a “small boy”. Ngige has reportedly suspended top management and executive committee members of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), though the presidential directive bars ministers from sacking heads of agencies. Appearing before the Adhoc Committee of the House of Representatives over an alleged breach of a presidential directive, Ngige called Faleke “a small boy” and said he was mate with “Tinubu, Faleke’s political mentor. He said, “I am at least seven years older than you. I’m sure. I am the same age as your mentor in Lagos, Asiwaju (Bola Ahmed Tinubu). And I was Governor with him at the same time. He was a Senator, I was a Senator. I am a two-time Minister, he isn’t a two-time Minister.” Faleke cuts in, mocking Ngige for his past electoral failure. He said “But he won all his elections very well.” Ngige fired back and reminded Faleke of how the Supreme Court decision cost Faleke his chance to be Kogi State’s governor, adding that Faleke was a “small Mushin boy”. “No problem about that. Just like you won your own in Kogi State very well and you are now both the Governor and Deputy Governor. “If you yab me, I yab you. I’m a Lagos boy. You are just a small boy in Lagos. Look at this Mushin boy, talking to a Victoria Island boy. I live in Victoria Island.”