The Ma’ajin Adamawa, Rufai Ahmad Duwa, has died from suspected COVID-19 complications. Duwa who is a prominent title holder in the Adamawa State Emirate died in the early hours of Friday after he grappled with an ailment sources said has semblance with COVID-19 infection. He was interred at the Muslims cemetery in Damare, Yola South at about 5:00pm on Friday. Multiple sources from Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Yola where the title holder died, said that before his death, he was under strict surveillance by hospital authorities having shown symptoms of COVID-19. “Since he was admitted at the hospital, people including us (family members) are prevented from coming close to him. “In facts, all family members including children, brothers, sisters and very close relatives were barred by the hospital authorities from having access to him. “He had difficulty in breathing and has been suffering from high fever making family members to suspect that he may have suffered from COVID-19 infection. “We learnt that his samples have been taken to the NCDC for test,” a family source told The Interview. A close friend of the deceased, who pleaded anonymity also said that he had diabetes and hypertension. “Since blood sample was taken for days and no result and people were prevented from him including his family members and this deteriorated his health and that led to his death,” he stated At the FMC Yola where the funeral rites were observed for the departed title holder, hospital authorities ensured the burial followed strict NCDC guidelines. “During the prayer, people were asked to stay far away from the ambulance carrying the corpse and the medical personnel who prepared the corpse all wore personal protective gears,” an eye witness narrated. When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the FMC, Muhammad Dodo, said the deceased was brought to the hospital with cholesterol complications. He however confirmed that his blood sample had been taken to the NCDC lab for testing, adding that the result of the test was being awaited. The Emirate Council is yet to comment on the matter.