The Presidency has showcased action plans introduced by President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration that will help deal with effects of COVID-19, even after the pandemic would have been over. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President Media and Publicity, noted in statement on Thursday that Nigeria was as worried as other nations regarding what the future held, post-COVID-19 pandemic. A checklist of measures it released on Thursday in Abuja, said one of the measures was the economic team, headed by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, “to examine the impact of COVID-19 on the economy.” It stated that a second measure was the Economic Sustainability Committee headed by the Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, explaining that its duty was to “define a post-COVID-19 economy for Nigeria.” Another measure it listed was the task force Buhari set up on free movement of farm produce, and headed by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr. Sabo Nanono. “Plans afoot to tackle weak health systems and infrastructure through establishment of standard laboratories, intensive care units, and isolation centres in all states of the Federation. The health infrastructure will eventually be recalibrated for the good of the people, and in readiness for future emergencies. “As long term measure, emphasis will be placed on integrating local content in proven researches in cure, and production of materials in the heath sector”, Adesina stated. The Presidency listed others, “A Fiscal Sustainability Plan to complement the suite of monetary and banking interventions recently announced by the Central Bank of Nigeria. “A mass agricultural programme to be put in place. Major rural road construction programme; ass housing programme. “Large scale installation of residential solar systems, utilizing mainly local materials. Expansion of the Social Investment Programme. “The 2020-2022 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and the Budget 2020 assumptions and targets have already been revised. “Time-sensitive expenditures are to be prioritized over less critical spending. “Extant financial controls are to be strengthened to detect, eliminate and sanction instances of waste, funds misappropriation and corruption.”