President Muhammadu Buhari and members National Security Council met on Thursday to review the current security challenges in the country, with emphasis on the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. The meeting resolved that President Buhari would commit needed resources to combat the pandemic and its impact on the security of the country. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha; National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (retd.); service chiefs; and heads of other security agencies attended the meeting. The meeting also looked into insurgency in the North-East and cases of banditry kidnapping that had failed to abate. Monguno, who spoke with State House Correspondents after the meeting, said the SGF gave a detailed briefing on COVID -19 and the efforts the President had done so far through the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 Pandemic to contain spread. He added that the meeting also devoted time to reviewing insurgency in the North-East, banditry and kidnapping, admitting that cases were on the increase lately. Monguno said as the NSA, he handled the briefing on the aspects dwelling on insurgency, banditry and kidnapping. He said, “I, as NSA, presented a couple of memos to council in relation to the current security challenges faced by Nigeria. These are issues that revolve around the insurgency in the north-east, banditry and the emergence of all kinds of groups that are not essentially bonafide. “I also highlighted other issues that are related to the problems of kidnapping, which we noticed have been on the increase in recent times. But the most important thing is that I stressed to council that there is a need for collective actions, not just for the security agencies but by all Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government, civil society organisations and all non-governmental organisations within Nigeria.” On how Buhari responded to the issues, the NSA stated, “Mr. President noted all the issues raised and of course in due time he will be able to address them. “Arising from this meeting, I will like to assure all Nigerians that Mr. President is fully on board; he is committed to doing whatever is necessary to reduce the spate of violence and insecurity in the country. “He is also committed to spending whatever resources he has at his disposal to bring to a quick end, all the issues affecting Nigerians and bringing a lot of sorrows to Nigerians. That is the most important takeaway from today’s meeting.”