Salma Hassan, the teenage wife paraded by the Bauchi State Police Command on Thursday for stabbing her husband to death has said that she stabbed him when he attempted to have sex with her. Salma who hails from Itas Gadau local government area of Bauchi, was paraded alongside other suspects by the Bauchi State Police Commissioner, Philips Maku. According to her, she stabbed her husband, Mohammed Mustapha, with a knife because she was beaten up by him for not accepting to have sex with him. “When we got married, eleven days after, he attempted to have sex with me and I declined because I considered it as an immoral act, I didn’t know that it was part of the marriage agreement”, Salma said. She said, “When I refused to allow him have his way, he beat me up, out of anger, I picked up a knife and stabbed him in the chest. I did not intend to kill him, it was a minor injury. I didn’t know he was going to die”. Salma who said her marriage with her deceased husband was out of love for each other, noted that she was not forced by anyone to get married to him. The teenage wife who said she was in pains over the incident, expressed regret that her husband died of the injuries he sustained from the unfortunate incident. She said she had realised the gravity of her action and prayed to God to forgive her, and the authorities to temper justice with mercy. The Police commissioner Maku who said Salma was 17 years of age, noted that she was arrested by his men following a report from one, Haruna Musa of Itas Gadau local government area of Bauchi state. “On the 24/04/2020 at about 0900hrs, one Haruna Musa ‘m’ of Itas-Gadau reported at Itas-Gadau Division, that one Salma Hassan ‘f’ 18yrs of the same address, stabbed her husband, one Mohammed Mustapha on the chest”. “As a result he sustained serious injury and was rushed to general hospital Itas–Gadau for treatment where he was certified dead”, CP Maku stated. The police commissioner said that the suspect was arrested and confessed to the crime, adding that one knife was recovered as exhibit from her.