Bola Tinubu, former Lagos governor, has said that victims of the shootings at the Lekki Toll Gate last week must answer questions on how they came to be present at the scene of the shootings and how long they were there for. The All Progressives Congress (APC) leader was answering questions from journalists on Saturday, when he visited Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Tinubu denied that either he or his son had fled the country at any time during the protests against police brutality. Tinubu said, “They say Seyi, my son, was kidnapped, was chased out. He is here. Look at him. This is him. I didn’t pay a penny to bring him here.  Maybe governor will give him pocket money. Equally too, ask him, pointedly, did he order the attack or if he didn’t order the attack, who ordered it? Was it to his knowledge that people were attacked? That is all I needed from him.” He said, “First, we have to segregate the calendar. Those who suffered casualty before the protests in the hands of SARS, you have to separate that from those who suffered casualty due to events at the toll gate. “For those who suffered from that, I think they set up the commission of inquiry, which will unearth all that occurred and make its recommendation. I trust, with the caliber and characters of the people there, they are independent. That is why.” He said,  “Those who suffered casualties during the gun shots need to answer some questions too. How were they there, how long were they there? What kind of characters are they? Even though we want to help, we still must extract information that will help the government to prepare in future to understand how and when to react, because the government, the governor in particular is a youth. “A youth himself, he quickly went to Abuja with the fight for five. The government immediately put into action, dissolved SARS and had to work through other recommended actions, that were demanded.” He said, “Within few days, he reported back to the public we saw on television, he delivered the message to the president. The president didn’t say no. the president gave him appointment within few hours. “That is responsive enough for people. But why are we getting the looting, the carnage, the burning, the invasion of police station, and the stealing of arms, and maiming the innocent. It is handshake beyond the elbow. I didn’t go nowhere. I am a Lagosian and I still hold the title of Asiwaju of Lagos, and I am still the Jagaban.” Ekiti State government, raised an alarm on Saturday that huge quantities of poisonous items, mistaken for food yet to be distributed as COVID-19 palliatives, were looted in warehouses in Ado-Ekiti on Friday… Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mr. Akin Omole, said in a statement in Ado Ekiti that raising the alarm became expedient to forestall any harm that could befall anyone who consumed the items. Also reportedly looted was the office of the Agricultural Development Programme (ADP) in Ado Ekiti. “Information at our disposal revealed that the Federal Government’s silos, the ADP warehouse and the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) stores, all in Ado- Ekiti, were attacked by hoodlums under the guise of seeking Covid-19 palliatives. “We insist that Ekiti state currently has no Covid-19 palliative warehouse as all the palliatives had been distributed. “Unfortunately, the items carted away were Single Super Phosphate and NPK fertilisers, which they erroneously thought was “Garri’’, cassava grains. “The SEMA store too has only emergency supplies for disaster response. “Some people even made away with pre-fermented corns preserved for planting. All these items are poisonous and not fit for consumption. “We, therefore, appeal to our people not to consume these items because they can kill,’’ Omole warned. In a similar statement, Dr. Olabode Adetoyi, the Commissioner for Agriculture and Food Security, confirmed the looting, warning that most of the items carted away contained chemically-treated seeds meant for planting. “They are not suitable for consumption,” he declared. The looters actually defied a heavy downpour in Ado-Ekiti on Friday night to storm the warehouses. Many travelled long distances either in their private vehicles or in taxis or on motorcycles to get to the warehouses to loot. Soldiers drafted to the warehouses were late as most of them were almost empty before they arrived. They deployed minimal force in their attempt to send the looters away, but in spite of this, some of them sustained injuries. Some residents are of the opinion that the looters were encouraged by similar incidents earlier reported in Lagos and Osun states, where looted many bags of rice, beans, spaghetti and other consumables stored in government warehouses. (NAN).