Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, has said the United Arab Emirates will start issuing visas to Nigerians. Intending travellers will however need to have health insurance. The insurance is one of several requirements adopted to contain the outbreak of the coronavirus disease. Other requirements according to a tweet by the minister on Wednesday include a return ticket, a negative COVID-19 test result and hotel bookings. READ ALSO: Nigeria Lifts Ban On Emirates Airline His tweet read, “UAE confirmed that they will begin issuance of Visas from 8th of October,  2020. Travelers to have a return ticket, hotel booking, negative PCR result & a Health insurance (similar to Schengen requirement). Health insurance can be paid through travel agents/airline.” A week earlier, the minister the UAE had written to state agreeing to issue visas to Nigerians. Consequently, he said “decision has been reached to allow Emirates to fly into Nigeria. Commencement of the Visa issuance is condition precedent.” President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 18th virtual meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) at the Council Chambers of the State House, Abuja. The Ministries of Interior, Aviation, Communications and Digital Economy, as well as Works and Housing are expected to make presentations during the meeting. The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS) are also expected to make presentations at the meeting. READ ALSO: FEC Approves N13trn 2021 Budget Proposal Those in attendance of the meeting included the Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and the National Security Adviser to the President, retired Major General Babagana Monguno. Others physically attending the meeting are the Ministers of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Finance, Zainab Ahmed; Justice, Abubakar Malami; Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami. READ ALSO: FEC Approves New National Policy On Occupational Safety The Ministers of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello; Aviation, Hadi Sirika; Interior, Rauf Aregbesola as well as Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo also joined the president at the Council Chamber for the meeting. Other members of the cabinet are participating in the weekly council meeting from their various offices in Abuja, online. (NAN)