The Alliance on Surviving COVID-19 And Beyond (ASCAB), led by human rights lawyer, Femi Falana has said it will set up an independent National Citizens Panel of Inquiry to investigate the October 20 shooting of protesters at Lekki Toll Gate. In an October 25, 2020 statement signed by Falana, interim chairman of the group, ASCAB resolved, after the Emergency Meeting by its affiliates, two days earlier on the state of the perilous state of the nation to take certain steps. Falana accused the security agencies of engaging the services of sponsored thugs to attack peaceful protesters in Lagos and Abuja for about 12 days. He said, “It is such state sponsored thuggery that boomeranged as boys and girls who have been used and dumped by politicians turned the peaceful protests to a conflagration that engulfed the nation. “ASCAB is not unaware that the Lagos State Government has directed the Judicial Commission of Inquiry set up to probe allegations of police brutality to unravel the brutal attack on the peaceful protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate.” He said, “ASCAB has however requested the Government to direct the Coroner to conduct an inquest into the circumstances surrounding the unnatural death of protesters.” Furthermore, ASCAB shall establish an Independent National Citizen’s Panel of Inquiry under a number of conditions Composition of the Citizen’s Panel of Inquiry shall comprise representatives of credible and identified organisations of the youth that took part in the #Endsars protest movement, including the Feminist Coalition, among others; representatives of credible and tested civil society organisations. He said the panel shall be chaired by a respected and credible senior legal practitioner or a retired judge; He stated, “The Panel of Inquiry shall request and receive petitions from relatives of fallen heroes and other aggrieved persons whose fundamental rights have been abused in relation to the #endsars protest movement. “The Panel shall undertake forensic analysis of evidence received. The Panel shall recommend appropriate scale of compensation for dependents of victims of rights abuse.” The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, on Saturday paid a courtesy visit to the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, where he urged the people of the state to continue to support the Federal Government’s initiatives toward ensuring peace and stability in the country. Danbatta, an indigene of Kano, commended the Emirate Council and the entire people of Kano for their unwavering support to the government. Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of public affairs quoted Danbatta in a statement Saturday, as saying Nigeria deserves a long period of peace and stability in order to achieve sustainable growth and development. The NCC chief executive said the Federal Government had come up with various initiatives on youth empowerment, especially through provision of digital skills and literacy. Bayero, who thanked the NCC boss and his entourage for the visit, commended President Muhammadu Buhari, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami and the EVC for the excellent performance of the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) industry. Bayero pledged to continue to support the Federal Government on its developmental initiatives,  urging all leaders to continue to promote peaceful coexistence in the country.