Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, candidate of the All Progressives Congress has won Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo. Akeredolu was declared winner of the election on Sunday by Idowu Olayinka, the returning officer in Akure, the state capital. While the governor polled a total of 292,830 votes, his closest challenger, Eyitayo Jegede of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) got 195,791 votes. Agboola Ajayi, candidate of the Zenith Labour Party and deputy governor of state scored 69,217 votes.. Akeredolu will be presented with his certificate at the INEC office in Akure, the state capital, of return on Tuesday. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has responded to cries and protests by citizens and announced the dismantling he Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS). The IGP said on Sunday that officers and men currently serving in the unit will be redeployed with immediate effect. Frank Mba, the spokesman of the Nigeria Police said in a statement that, ”In the finest spirit of democratic, citizen-centred and community policing, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni has today, 11th October, 2020, dissolved the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) across the 36 State Police Commands and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) where they hitherto existed” He said, ”In addition, the Force is constituting an Investigation Team which shall include Civil Society Organizations and Human Rights Bodies to work with the Police in investigating alleged cases of human rights violations. “The measure, the IGP believes, will enhance transparency and accountability in police services as well as providing a system of deterrence for erring police officers whose action clearly violates the rights of the citizenry.” READ ALSO: EndSARS Protesters Storm Force Headquarters He said, ”The IGP, while noting that the dissolution of SARS is in response to the yearnings of the Nigerian people, observes that by this dissolution, all officers and men of the now defunct Special Anti-robbery Squad are being redeployed with immediate effect. ”The IGP notes that the Force is not oblivious of the ever present need to combat armed robbery, kidnapping and other violent crimes in the country which was before now the core mandate of the erstwhile Squad. He assures that a new policing arrangement to address anticipated policing gaps the dissolution of SARS would cause has been evolved and shall be announced in due course.” Mba said, ”Meanwhile, as part of measures to prevent a re-occurrence of events that gave rise to the dissolution of SARS, a Citizens’ and Strategic Stakeholders’ Forum is being formed to regularly interface with Police leadership at all levels and advise on police activities as they affect the general public. ”The IGP appreciates and commends all citizens particularly those who genuinely express their concerns for a better policing orientation in an organized, patriotic and civil manner. He reaffirms the determination of the Force to bequeath to the country a Police Force and System that is professional in service delivery and most importantly, accountable to the people.”