The Federal Government has said it will not allow anarchy to take hold of the country in name of EndSARS protests to end police brutality. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said this on Saturday during a television interview on the ongoing protests. He said the protests had deviated from their original goals of those that initiated the protests. READ ALSO: #EndSARS: Army Goes On Cyberspace Offensive With Exercise Crocodile Smile He said, “Peaceful protest is an integral part of democracy and that is why the Federal Government in the last 11 days has treated the protesters in a very civilised manner.” The minister said, “But, if you look at what happened to the governor of Osun State, it has gone completely beyond peaceful protest against excesses and abuse of power by the police. “There is nowhere in the world where a government will fold its arms and allow the country to descend into anarchy.” READ ALSO: EndSARS: Anonymous Hacks EFCC’s Website He said, “We are no longer dealing with #EndSARS but a volatile situation that can lead to anarchy if government does not take some very firm steps to protect the lives and livelihood of innocent Nigerians.” He “We have nothing against peaceful protest but there are civilised ways of doing so. This is by going to a venue where you are not going to disturb other Nigerians because where your own right stops, other persons’ right begins.” The Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) has constituted a committee to review the framework for the licensing of Infrastructure Companies (InfraCo) and recommend sustainable funding options for effective implementation of the proposed national fibre project. NCC said in a statement on Sunday that the constitution of the committee was sequel to the requirements of the new Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP 2020-2025) and reports of relevant committees set up by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), which include the Inter-Ministerial Review Committee on Multiple Taxation on Telecommunications Operators over Right-of-Way (RoW) and the Technical Sub-Committee on Right-of-Way for Deepening Broadband Penetration in Nigeria. Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, the Commission’s director of public affairs who signed the statement said, “These requirements and reports relate to the imperative of reviewing the InfraCo framework to cater for the delays in take-off, change in exchange rate, supply chain and other challenges imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. “So far, the Committee set up by the Commission has met with all the six licensed InfraCos as well as the preferred bidder for the North Central zone. The Committee is also looking at the challenges facing the InfraCo project, the need for accelerated deployment of fibre infrastructure, means of mitigating the exorbitant RoW charges, among others.” The Commission, he said was also working actively with the Broadband Implementation Steering Committee (BISC), as constituted by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy based on the recommendations and requirements of the NNBP 2020-2025. PAdinde quoted the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, to have said, “The InfraCo project is dear to the government because of its ability to enhance robust and pervasive broadband infrastructure to drive service availability, accessibility and affordability.” Danbatta said, “We are keen on ensuring the project delivers maximum benefits for the economy at large and that is why the ongoing review is very critical to the overall success of the project in line with the new realities of the time.” The EVC clarified that the current status of the InfraCo project, as provided above, is contrary to reports suggesting that the Commission is inching towards executing the counterpart funding in respect of the project.