The Kano State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), said that 54 persons lost their lives and 30,356 houses destroyed due to flooding this raining season in the state. Dr. Saleh Jili, Executive Secretary of the agency, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Friday in Kano. Jili said that the data which cut across the 44 Local Government Areas of the state was recorded from June to date. The Nigeria Metrological Agency (NiMeT) in collaboration with Nigerian Hydrological Service Agency (NIHSA) predicted 20 LGAs iñ the state as flood prone areas this season. READ ALSO: Flood Disaster: Kwara Governor Visits Buhari, Seeks Help For 15,000 Victims Jili listed the affected LGAs as Rogo; Kabo, Gezawa, Bebeji, Kura, Gwarzo, Shanono, Wudil and Gaya. Others were Danbatta; Bagwai, Rimin Gado, Ungogo, Gwale, Warawa, Tarauani, Nasarawa, Dala, Kumbotso, and Kano Municipal among others.’ “30,356 houses destroyed and 54 persons lost their lives with 81 persons injured due to flood, windstorm and rainstorm from June to date. “The agency has recorded 2,177 fire outbreaks and 9,127 farmlands destroyed to the disaster,” he said. READ ALSO: Kebbi Women Resort To Prayers Against Insecurity, Flooding
“The displaced persons are taking shelter with their relatives in the affected communities. “We are at the affected areas to sympathise with the victims and distributed relief materials to alleviate their sufferings,” he said. Jili said the items distributed included bags of cement, grain, roofing sheets, blankets, Mattress, and toiletries among others. The secretary urged wealthy individuals and donor organisations to assist the victims, and called on the people to clear water ways to prevent flooding. (NAN) Rev. Omotola Oyediran, eldest daughter of the late sage, Obafemi Awolowo, is dead. Oyediran was the aunt of Dolapo Osinbajo, wife of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The vice president’s wife is also Awolowo’s grandaughter. The office of the vice president is however yet to comment or give official confirmation on the death. Awolowo dominated Youruba politics in both the pro-independence and post independence era. The late Oyediran who died in Ibadan, Oyo State was married to a former Vice Chancellor, Prof. Kayode Oyediran. She died on Friday October 16, 2020 at the age of 79 and was the Chairman, Board of Directors of African Newspapers of Nigeria ( ANN) publishers of Tribune titles.