President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday promised adequate support for the welfare of Nigerian police personnel both in service and in retirement, amid the raging #EndSARS protests in the country. He spoke in Abuja during the virtual inauguration of the new Head Office Building of Nigerian Police Fund Pensions Ltd. Buhari specifically praised the Fund for initiating a Retirees Resettlement Support Scheme to provide financial support for retired police officers. He promised that his administration, on its part, would improve the livelihood of serving officers. The President assured retired officers, who served “meritoriously”, that they would not suffer in retirement. He said there would be financial support for them. Buhari stated, “To the Nigeria Police Fund Pensions Limited, I wish to applaud your Company for instituting a Retirees Resettlement Support Scheme through which you provide some form of financial support to retired Police Officers to enable them to resettle fully in retirement after “meritoriously” serving the nation. “Taking your services to the doorstep of Police Officers by maintaining an office in each Police Command and Formation is also very laudable. At this juncture, I urge you to continue your untiring efforts in collaborating with the Police authorities towards improving the welfare of both serving and retired personnel of the Nigeria Police Force.’’ To the police as institution, he commended “the continuous efforts of the Nigeria Police Force, not only for fighting and addressing the emerging internal security challenges, but also in enhancing the welfare of their personnel through their Pension Fund Administration… “This ceremony is a significant milestone for the nation’s pension industry as this New Head Office Building Complex is the first to be purpose-built by Pension Fund Administrator. “It is noteworthy that for a company that is just six years old, to have achieved this magnificent, befitting edifice, utilising only its internally-generated revenue, and using wholly indigenous contractors, shows that our efforts in driving fiscal discipline and encouraging patronage of local firms is yielding the desired results. “To that effect, I praise the consultant who designed the project as well as the contractors that erected this beautiful complex, whom we learnt are both indigenous, as they work to promote and build our economy through the provision of jobs to our teeming youths. I am delighted to hear that during the construction of this project, over 2,000 man-labour were engaged.’’ The State House said the President also called on the “National Pension Commission (PenCom), Police Authorities and Nigeria Police Force Pensions Limited to maintain their concerted efforts toward achieving improved welfare for police personnel.”