The government of Nasir El-Rufai has selected Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli as the new Emir of Zazzau following the September 20, 2020 death of Emir Shehu Idris who reigned for 45 years and was the 18th emir. Born in June 1966, Bamalli studied Law at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. He holds a master’s degree in International Relations and Diplomacy and a diploma in Organisational Leadership from Oxford University. READ ALSO: Emir Of Zaria, Shehu Idris Dies At 84 In a statement by Ja’afaru Sani, the Commissioner of Local Government Affairs, the governor congratulated Bamalli on his appointment and wished him a successful and peaceful reign. Sani said Alhaji Bamalli was the first emir from the Mallawa ruling house in 100 years following the demise in 1920 of his grandfather, Emir Dan Sani. Until his appointment as Emir of Zazzau, Bamalli held the title of Magajin Garin Zazzau and served as Nigeria’s ambassador to Thailand, with concurrent accreditation to Myanmar. READ ALSO: New Emir: Kaduna Government Confirms Receipt Of Zazzau kingmakers Report He has been a permanent commissioner in the Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission in 2015. He has worked in the banking sector as Executive Director and later acting Managing Director of the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company. Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, has said the United Arab Emirates will start issuing visas to Nigerians. Intending travellers will however need to have health insurance. The insurance is one of several requirements adopted to contain the outbreak of the coronavirus disease. Other requirements according to a tweet by the minister on Wednesday include a return ticket, a negative COVID-19 test result and hotel bookings. READ ALSO: Nigeria Lifts Ban On Emirates Airline His tweet read, “UAE confirmed that they will begin issuance of Visas from 8th of October,  2020. Travelers to have a return ticket, hotel booking, negative PCR result & a Health insurance (similar to Schengen requirement). Health insurance can be paid through travel agents/airline.” A week earlier, the minister the UAE had written to state agreeing to issue visas to Nigerians. Consequently, he said “decision has been reached to allow Emirates to fly into Nigeria. Commencement of the Visa issuance is condition precedent.”