The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Wednesday reported 179 new cases of COVID-19 infections in 23 states of the federation. The total number of confirmed cases has now risen to 60,834, with 52,143 patients discharged and a death toll of 1,116. Lagos State, which has witnessed a resurgence of new infections in recent days reported the highest number of cases with 116. It was followed by Anambra State which had 20 new cases. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Oyo and Rivers states had nine each. Delta and Nasarawa states had three new cases each, Edo, Kaduna, Ogun and Plateau states had two each, while Ekiti and Osun states had one case each. The General Overseer of the Redeem Christian Church of God (RCCG), Enoch Adeboye, has thrown his weight behind the protests across the country to bring an end to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force. His church, the RCCG, also on Wednesday released a statement officially endorsing the protests. Adeboye tweeted, “Our daughters will not be able to prophesy and young men will not see visions if we don’t keep them alive. I support the youths in this peaceful protest as they “speak up” to #EndPoliceBrutality!#EndSARS #ENDSWAT.” The RCCG statement was signed by Johnson Odesola, RCCG’s assistant general overseer administration and personnel. Odesola said, “The Redeemed Christian Church of God has identified with Nigerians presently protesting against police brutality and the abuse of power by the very institution established to protect them.” He said, “The Church declared its understanding and appreciation of the concerns and grievances of the youths and the generality of Nigerians and called for an immediate end to police brutality in the country. READ ALSO: ENDSARS: MURIC Urges Protesters To Disband “While noting the constitutional responsibility of the Police to maintain law and order, the Church emphasized the need for the Police to constantly align their strategies with the needs of the people.” Odesola said, “While noting that many innocent lives had been wasted through unnecessary brutality and wrong application of force, the Church calls on the Government to not only restructure the Police but to also re-orientate the officers towards modern ways of policing.” He said, “The Church welcomes the disbandment of the SARS and notes the establishment of a new outfit called the Special Weapons and Tactics Team (SWAT) but warned that it should not become a case of old wine in a new bottle. READ ALSO: Police kills Another #EndSARS Protester “The Church reiterated its call on Government to take urgent steps to tackle the rising rate of unemployment, decay in the nation’s educational system and the general harsh economic situation in the country.”