The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), an advocacy group in Lagos, on Wednesday called on the #EndSARS protesters against police brutality to disperse since the Federal Government has disbanded the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). In a statement, MURIC warned hoodlums and politicians from turning the protest into their parochial agenda. Commending the efforts of the protesters, the leader of the group, Professor Ishaq Akintola, condemned the reported excesses of the SARS, saying, “We frown at the brutal killing of young Nigerians in the hands of the police and consider these as crimes against humanity. READ ALSO: EndSARS Protests: Presidential Panel On Police Reforms Endorses 5-Point Demand He said, “The protesters should now disperse, go home and and organisers of the protest must take responsibility as there is no reason why #EndSARS protest should metamorphose into any other movement. “We also caution hoodlums and politicians against hijacking the protest for their selfish and parochial agenda,” he said. READ ALSO: Police kills Another #EndSARS Protester Akintola said, “These actions by SARS are a gross violation of freedom of movement and association which are fundamental human rights guaranteed under the country’s constitution which the police swore to protect. “We therefore find justification for the Nigerian youths who participated in the #EndSARSprotests. We also appreciate the prompt action of the Federal Government.” (NAN) President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday asked members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to close ranks and strengthen the unity of the party, else they had themselves to blame. He noted that until they agreed to work together, they would suffer for nothing. The President stated that unity would always lead to sweet electoral victories as recently witnessed in Ondo State. Buhari spoke at the State House in Abuja when re-elected Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, paid him a visit. “Unless we work together, we will suffer for nothing”, he told party leaders and members. The governor visited in company with the Chairman of the Interim Management Committee of the APC, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State; Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State; Chairman of Progressive Governors Forum, Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State; Chairman of the Ondo APC Campaign Council, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, and  Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State. READ ALSO: Hold Me Responsible For States Lost To PDP – Buhari Buhari urged party faithful at all levels to take ownership of the APC and continue to push for it to win all elections. “Nothing succeeds like success…We are here to celebrate and congratulate Governor Akeredolu for his re-election, which was as a result of collaboration”, he added. The President asked party members to repeat the unity of purpose displayed in Ondo at the next governorship poll in Anambra State and the general elections in 2023. Buhari added, “This is an evidence that when we come together and collaborate we can achieve a lot. I received the governors in the State House on their way to Ondo State for the final campaigns. “Let’s keep the relationship going while in office, and afterwards. We better tell all state party members what working together can do. There is nothing like tenacity of purpose.” According to Buhari, much success can be achieved if a person does not give up on what he wants to achieve. He cited an example with himself who had to contest election a number of times and lost before he eventually won in 2015. Buhari went on, “I am an example of tenacity of purpose. I contested elections three times, and the fourth time I got here. You just can’t sit and wait for things to happen under any system, you have to work.” The Presidency said in his remarks, Mala Buni praised the people of Ondo for endorsing continuity. Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, wrote,  “Buni said the party will work together for legislative elections in Bayelsa State, Imo State, Cross River State and Zamfara State.” The Yobe governor added, “We are mobilising for the elections and as usual we will need your support, Your Excellency.’’ On his part, Akeredolu thanked Buhari and the entire party for the support he got across board. “I thank the almighty God for making the victory possible. I also appreciate the President for the love he has shown to me in all ramifications from 2016. I will never forget”, he said.