The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control has announced 133 new cases of Coronavirus in the country. The NCDC made this known on its official twitter handle on Sunday The country recorded two new casualties bringing the total death toll  to 1,125. The agency said that 54 patients were discharged from isolation centres across the country. It stated that the new 133 cases were detected in nine  states including the Federal Capital Territory. The NCDC said  that Lagos State recorded the highest new infections with 90 confirmed cases, while Rivers State recorded 13 cases. This was followed by Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Kaduna State with eight new cases each. According to the agency, since the beginning of the outbreak in Nigeria in February, more than 578,841 samples have been tested by NCDC, out of which 61,440 were positive. “Till date, 61,440 cases have been confirmed, 56,611 cases have been discharged and 1,125 deaths have been recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory,” it said. The health agency said that a multi-sectoral national emergency operations centre (EOC), activated at Level 3, have continued  to coordinate the national response activities across the country. Meanwhile, the agency noted that older people of 60 years and above had higher risks of complications from COVID-19 infection, especially those with underlying health conditions. “Protect yourself: Wear a mask in public places, Wash hands with soap and water Stay away from people with no face mask. “A properly worn facemask prevents droplets from landing on surfaces when you cough or sneeze. “As you step out, remember to: Wear a facemask. Observe physical distancing and wash your hands frequently,” it advised. (NAN) The Federal Government has said it will not allow anarchy to take hold of the country in name of EndSARS protests to end police brutality. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said this on Saturday during a television interview on the ongoing protests. He said the protests had deviated from their original goals of those that initiated the protests. READ ALSO: #EndSARS: Army Goes On Cyberspace Offensive With Exercise Crocodile Smile He said, “Peaceful protest is an integral part of democracy and that is why the Federal Government in the last 11 days has treated the protesters in a very civilised manner.” The minister said, “But, if you look at what happened to the governor of Osun State, it has gone completely beyond peaceful protest against excesses and abuse of power by the police. “There is nowhere in the world where a government will fold its arms and allow the country to descend into anarchy.” READ ALSO: EndSARS: Anonymous Hacks EFCC’s Website He said, “We are no longer dealing with #EndSARS but a volatile situation that can lead to anarchy if government does not take some very firm steps to protect the lives and livelihood of innocent Nigerians.” He “We have nothing against peaceful protest but there are civilised ways of doing so. This is by going to a venue where you are not going to disturb other Nigerians because where your own right stops, other persons’ right begins.”