No fewer than 37 police officers could be dismissed and 24 others prosecuted for human rights violations following a recommendation from the presidential panel on the reform of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. A statement by Ikechukwu Ani, the spokesman of the Police Service Commission’s (PSC) on Friday said 113 complaints had been received against some of these officers. He said, “The presidential panel had among other things investigated allegations of human rights violations and abuse of office against SARS and recommended reform or restructuring of the outfit. “We have come to see a PSC determined to play a leading role in the reform of the Nigeria Police Force.” . He said that the panel also directed the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, to unravel the identity of 22 officers involved in the violation of the human rights of innocent citizens. According to the statement, the chairman of the commission, former Inspector General of Police, Musiliu Smith, said that the PSC would collaborate and support the Human Rights Commission in the promotion of good governance. He said that for an effective reform of SARS, there must be a deliberate effort to select capable, professional and credible people to replace the disbanded outfit. “There must also be training and close supervision of the newly-selected officers so that the nation will not experience the rot that became the fate of the disbanded unit. Any misconduct, he noted, should be severely and promptly handled,” Smith said. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has described the death of Mrs. Tola Oyediran, the eldest daughter of  late Chief Obafemi Awolowo as a  great loss to the state and the entire country. Makinde, in a condolence message to the African Newspapers of Nigeria (ANN) Plc.; the publishers of the Tribune  titles, the Oyediran and  the Awolowo families, maintained that Oyediran, who died in Ibadan on Friday, made a huge mark on the society. He said that the deceased who was the  Chairman of ANN Plc. would be remembered for her immense contributions in sustaining the legacies of the sage alongside her sister, Dr. Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosumu, also a co-chairman of the newspaper. A statement by Mr. Taiwo Adisa,  the Chief Press Secretary to Gov. Makinde, indicated that the governor condoled with the widower, Prof. A.B.O.O. Oyediran, and his  children,  as well as Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, wife of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, and  the Vice President himself, who holds close family ties with the departed. The condolence message read: “The news of the death of the chairman of the ANN PLC, publishers of the Tribune titles, Revd. Tola Oyediran, came to me as a shock. I must say that it is painful, and a great loss to the state and the entire country. “She made a huge mark as a daughter of the most respected Nigerian leader that ever was and it is clear that she and her sister, Dr. Awolowo Dosumu, did a great job in sustaining the great legacies of Chief Obafemi Awolowo. READ ALSO: Awolowo’s Eldest Daughter, Omotola Oyediran Is Dead “As  the Chairman of Tribune titles, following the passage of Mama HID Awolowo a few years back, Mrs. Oyediran not only sustained the great legacy, she charted a new course for the oldest surviving private newspaper in Nigeria and the flagship of political journalism. “Mrs. Oyediran’s death, no doubt, is painful. Though we have a cause to celebrate her life, because she lived it well, touching lives positively; it is always painful when one loses a loved one, no matter how old such a person is. “I know this because my mum only passed on a little over 24 hours before our amiable aunt, Mrs. Tola Oyediran, also joined the saints. “I commiserate with the immediate family, the Tribune family, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and his wife, Dolapo, and the entire Awolowo family as a whole. “I pray that God will grant the family the fortitude to bear this loss and also grant repose to the soul of the departed.” (NAN)