Prince Tony Momoh, a political ally of President Muhammadu Buhari has responded to a resurfaced story from April 2016 where he called on Nigerians to stone the All Progressives Congress if they failed to perform after two years in office. Momoh, who in the story, now circulating on social media had spoken with the Guardian Newspaper, blamed the riot APC found in 2015 for not delivering within the first year. Speaking with The Interview on Monday,  Momoh, a former chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change, said the APC has more than performed since coming to office. Explaining why Nigerian are protesting, he said, “Why shouldn’t they be out on the street when there is COVID-19 everywhere? APC did not cause COVID. What is happening is all over the world.  The U.K economy is in recession,  Canada is in recession,  but the way the APC government has managed the economy, it is not yet in recession.” When reminded that COVID-19 is not behind the increase in the price of petrol and that of electricity tariffs, Momoh said, “Where is the money going to come from? Who will pay for the electricity? Government allowed the private sector to generate electricity,  it had the decongestant the economy.” He however said people suggesting the APC government has not performed had a right to voice their opinion. The opposition,  he said, had a right to opposed the government but not irresponsibly. As evidence of the APC’s performance, Momoh pointed to the number of rice growers in the country, the operation of the rail system and the fight against corruption. The money being borrowed, he said was not for sharing. Momoh also touted the democratic gains of the ruling party, asking which election since the APC government came to power has the Supreme Court overruled. A political pressure group, APC Professionals Forum, has cautioned organisers of the #EndSARS protests in the country to exercise restraint while pushing for better policing and good governance. The forum gave the advice in a statement issued by Mr Gerald Ekwunife, its Publicity Secretary. Ekwunife said that though the conduct of some officers of the defunct Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) was condemnable, the protesters should maintain peace while expressing their grievances against the unit. “APC Professionals Forum, is an assembly of partisan professionals who have volunteered to serve as guardians of the change mantra of the ruling party and promoters of good governance. “We condemn the dehumanisation and criminality of some SARS operatives in the course of their duties. “While we support the genuine cause and agitations for Police reforms, we believe that it should be done within the ambits of the law and not to further compound the problems of our people. “The calls for reforms is a call that is long overdue and is a process in the right direction. “As a group of professionals, we are abreast with the facts that the ENDSARS protests are geared towards ensuring human rights and solving institutional corruption that has affected our existence 60 years after independence,” he said He said that organisers of the protests need to now stand down and allow the government to institutionalise Police reforms. He said, “We call on Nigerian youths and the protests organisers to exercise caution in their ongoing agitations, especially as the government has set machinery in motion to meet all their five-point demands. “We must not allow miscreants and agents of anarchy to hijack the peaceful protest to ferment further hardship on Nigerians. “Allowing agents of anarchy to loot small businesses and offices as well as blocking access to highways and roads to hospitals and shops as well as offices will further compound the hardships that Nigerians are presently experiencing.” Meanwhile, the forum commended the Federal Government for yielding to the protesters demands by disbanding SARS and setting up processes to fast track Police reforms. (NAN)