The Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) on Friday urged the African continent to brace itself for possible second wave COVID-19 infections. According to Africa CDC, the number of confirmed cases in the African continent has reached 1,759,794. The continental disease control and prevention agency said in a statement that the death toll related to the pandemic stood at 42,336 as of Friday afternoon. A total of 1,438,841 people infected with COVID-19 have recovered across the continent so far, the Africa CDC said. The most COVID-19 affected African countries in terms of the number of positive cases include South Africa, Morocco, Egypt, Ethiopia and Nigeria. The Southern Africa region is the most COVID-19 affected region both in terms of the number of confirmed positive cases as well as the number of deaths. The Northern Africa region is the second most COVID-19-affected African region, according to the Africa CDC. John Nkengasong, Africa CDC Director, said “the time for the continent to prepare for the second wave is now.’’ The director, speaking during a virtual press conference on Thursday, said the continent has to prepare for a second wave of COVID-19 infections, as the number of new cases in several African countries is showing a slight increase. (NAN) Soldiers manning the gate at the Military Hospital in Ikoyi have stopped the Lagos judicial panel on #EndSARS from assessing the hospital’s mortuary. The panel, unannounced, on Friday went to the hospital on investigation into the shooting at Lekki tollgate where 15 protesters were reportedly killed. Witnesses of the Lekki shooting accused the military of taking away the bodies of those killed in the incident. The panel met resistance as it got to the gate of the hospital. Ebun Adegboruwa, a member of the panel, told soldiers, who stopped them at the gate, that the panel came to the hospital because it had intelligence that might help with its investigation. “The facility is relevant to our investigation. We have a pathologist. We are here on the authority of the president, not only the governor,” he said. “We are following dues process, and it is important we visit the mortuary as it will help our findings. “If we are not allowed access, we will go back and take other actions. We won’t force ourselves in. We have confidential information that the military hospital here is relevant in the investigation of the Lekki event. We heard this hospital is controlled by 65 battalion, and under the 81 division. We are also taking steps to reach military authorities.” Adegboruwa said though the panel did not have evidence that there are bodies of those killed at the tollgate in the hospital, it was at the facility to verify the claim that they were. Credit: Cable