A former governor of old Kaduna State,Alhaji Balarabe Musa, says Nigeria has not done well in actualising most of the dreams of its founding fathers at 60. Musa told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on telephone on Sunday that the country could be better than its current state if the leaders had done more. According to him ,the aspirations of the country could be achieved if both the leadership and followers resolved to play their part in earnest nation building . “Honestly, the country has not fared well at 60. It is very disappointing that this is where we are. “But things can be better; we can still achieve the dreams of the founding fathers if we all play our role in nation building,”he said. He urged leaders to always make the welfare and well-being of the people the focus of their policies and programmes. The former governor stressed that political and economic restructuring of the country was key for progress “We need to restructure the country politically and economically. We need to ensure that power actually resides with the people. “The economic and political models we are currently operating only empower a few. Governments must be structured to impact posively on the masses,”he said. He decried the security challenges in the country, saying the problem was threatening the progress and prosperity of the nation. Musa said if the country had acted at the right time, the rising cases of banditry and the problem of insurgency could have been averted. “We acted too late. Things are getting out of hand because we did not act at the right time. If we had taken timely actions,we would not been here, “he said. Musa, however, said that the situation could still be reversed “if we sustain doing the right thing,” he said. Musa was elected as governor of Kaduna State on the platform of the Malam Aminu Kano led People’s Redemption party in 1979. He was eventually impeached by a predominantly National Party of Nigeria dominated Kaduna state House of Assembly in 1982, after an intractable dispute. The Inspector General of Police (I-G), Mr Mohammed Adamu, has deployed the Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police in charge of Research and Planning, Mr. Adeleye Oyabade, to coordinate security for the Ondo State governorship election. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Mr. Frank Mba disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. He said that others deployed to assist Oyabade were Mr. Karma Hassan, the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Federal Operations and 11 Commissioners of Police (CPs). Mba said the CPs deployed to handle other layers of security in the State were Abiodun Alabi, Bishi Omololu, Ashafa Kunle, Akeera Yonous, Buba Sanusi, Audu Madaki, Evelyn Peterside, Sadiku Gbenga and Abutu Yaro. READ ALSO: Fire Destroys 5,141 INEC Card Readers For Ondo Governorship Election According to him, CP Garba Umar will be in charge of Monitoring/Evaluation and will be assisted by CP Habu Sani. He said the deployment was part of efforts by the police to ensure effective coordination and full implementation of security arrangements toward a peaceful election in the state on October 10. The FPRO said the IG had charged the coordinating DIG to bring his wealth of experience to bear by ensuring due enforcement of all electoral laws during the exercise. READ ALSO: Ondo 2020: INEC Chairman Commends LG Offices’ Preparations He said the IG had warned that no Security Aides would be allowed to accompany VIPs or political appointees on the Election Day, adding that severe punishments would be meted out on violators of the order. Mba said that the IG had called officers and men of the Force as well as personnel of other security agencies deployed for the election to conduct themselves professionally. He said that the I-G had also urged the security personnel to work in line with best practices as highlighted in the Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for Elections. (NAN)