The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has assured that hoodlums who carted away items meant for corps members would be tracked and made to face the law. Adamu said this on Friday after inspecting the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) camp in Kubwa, Abuja. The hoodlums attacked the camp on Tuesday and carted away food items and other materials. “It is very unfortunate that the place was heavily looted as we went round to see the destruction made by the hoodlums,” he said. He expressed worry over the situation, adding that the camp meant for the training of youths to enable them contribute their quota to the development of the country had turned out to be the focus of looters. Adamu said it was a good thing that corps members were not in camp during the incident. “It would have been a disaster had they been around,” he said. According to him, some of the items have been recovered, while some of the hoodlums have been arrested. “A total number of 53 suspects have been arrested so far and would be charged to court,” he said. He called on Nigerians to report persons suspected to be in possession of the looted items to the nearest law enforcement agency. “For those who broke into this facility and stole, we assure Nigerians that we shall pursue them, track them and prosecute them,” Adamu said. The Director-General, NYSC, Brigadier-General Shuaibu Ibrahim, said that the scheme was preparing for the forthcoming orientation scheduled to begin on Nov. 10, people assumed there were palliatives in the camp. “People think that NYSC camps have palliatives, but I want to tell Nigerians that we don’t have palliatives in our camps,” he said. He, therefore, advised the youth to stop attacking NYSC camps as  most of the items were labelled. (NAN) The Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) on Friday urged the African continent to brace itself for possible second wave COVID-19 infections. According to Africa CDC, the number of confirmed cases in the African continent has reached 1,759,794. The continental disease control and prevention agency said in a statement that the death toll related to the pandemic stood at 42,336 as of Friday afternoon. A total of 1,438,841 people infected with COVID-19 have recovered across the continent so far, the Africa CDC said. The most COVID-19 affected African countries in terms of the number of positive cases include South Africa, Morocco, Egypt, Ethiopia and Nigeria. The Southern Africa region is the most COVID-19 affected region both in terms of the number of confirmed positive cases as well as the number of deaths. The Northern Africa region is the second most COVID-19-affected African region, according to the Africa CDC. John Nkengasong, Africa CDC Director, said “the time for the continent to prepare for the second wave is now.’’ The director, speaking during a virtual press conference on Thursday, said the continent has to prepare for a second wave of COVID-19 infections, as the number of new cases in several African countries is showing a slight increase. (NAN)