President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 18th virtual meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) at the Council Chambers of the State House, Abuja. The Ministries of Interior, Aviation, Communications and Digital Economy, as well as Works and Housing are expected to make presentations during the meeting. The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS) are also expected to make presentations at the meeting. READ ALSO: FEC Approves N13trn 2021 Budget Proposal Those in attendance of the meeting included the Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and the National Security Adviser to the President, retired Major General Babagana Monguno. Others physically attending the meeting are the Ministers of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Finance, Zainab Ahmed; Justice, Abubakar Malami; Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami. READ ALSO: FEC Approves New National Policy On Occupational Safety The Ministers of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello; Aviation, Hadi Sirika; Interior, Rauf Aregbesola as well as Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo also joined the president at the Council Chamber for the meeting. Other members of the cabinet are participating in the weekly council meeting from their various offices in Abuja, online. (NAN) The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it recorded 646 convictions and recovered more than N11 billion in monetary assets this year, despite the restriction imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Mr. Umar Abba, disclosed this while addressing the Senate Committee on Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes in Abuja on Tuesday. The spokeperson of the commission, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, said in a statement that the Senate Committee had expressed the desire of the Upper Legislative House to see a reformed and rebranded EFCC. This, according to the committee, will help in its fight against corruption, economic and financial crimes in the country. Senator Suleiman Kwari, the Chairman of the Committee, advised that 90 per cent of investigation should be done before “arrest is effected”. READ ALSO: EFCC Secures Final Forfeiture Of N827.6m From NDDC Contractors He added that “media hype must stop. If you want to be effective forget the media, do the work and let your work speak for you.” Kwari disclosed that the ninth Senate was determined to see that there is a constant flow of information and engagement between the Senate and the EFCC. Senator Aliyu Wamakko, the Deputy Chairman of the Committee, expressed concern on the Commission’s lean budgetary allocation for legal fees, noting that there must be adequate provision for legal fees in the EFCC budget for effective prosecutions. Mr. Uwujaren quoted the EFCC boss, Umar, as telling the Senate Committee that the Commission had earned the confidence and trust of Nigerians because of its unblemished professional disposition. “The EFCC is doing remarkably well above all other law-enforcement agencies in the country and that is why the UNODC and National Bureau of Statistics in the 2017 survey they conducted ranked EFCC as the most effective government agency in Nigeria,” Umar said. Reacting to the issues of seized vehicles by the Commission, Abba expressed pain at the deteriorating state of assets in the custody of the EFCC. “We are working on this challenge and I am sure the Attorney General of the Federation is coming out with a gazette so that this issue will be a thing of the past. It involves not only vehicles, but also landed properties,” he said. READ ALSO: Finally, FG Set To Establish Asset Recovery Agency The EFCC boss also weighed in on concerns expressed by the legislators on the waning impact of the Whistle-blowing policy of the federal government, blaming the situation on mischief and misinformation by members of the public who turned it to a tool for settling personal scores. “It is true that the whistle-blowing policy has gone awry, unlike what it was at the beginning of the policy, where we received several reports from whistle-blowers. “People started being mischievous with the policy. So we have to tread carefully as people turned it into a personal vendetta tool against individuals,” he said. READ ALSO: EFCC Recovers Almost N1trn In Assets He, however, revealed that the policy was being fine-tuned by the Ministry of Finance to make it more efficient. The EFCC boss used the occasion to acquaint the legislators with the challenges confronting the agency, including
the lack of adequate personnel and office accommodation, especially in the Commission’s zonal offices), and the lack of internet facility, Information and Communication Technology equipment, among others. He canvassed for the support of the committee in overcoming these challenges through appropriation. (NAN)