The Executive Director of Baobab for Women’s Rights, Bunmi Dipo-Salami, says questions on how women have fared after 60 years of independence need answers inorder to chart a productive way forward. Dipo-Salami spoke on Tuesday at a virtual intergenerational town hall meeting with the theme ‘Accountability for Women’s Development 60 years after Independence. The virtual meeting was put together by her organisation convening  different generations of women across sectors. In her introductory speech, she said the objectives of the meeting were to assess the progress that women have made over the years, bridge the inter-generational knowledge gap among women and examine how legal and policy frameworks have impacted the exercise of women’s rights. READ ALSO: I’m Beneficiary Of Not Too Young To Run Law – Kwara Commissioner She said, “In essence, this convening is aimed at looking back to understand the present which in turn would enable us look forward in a productive manner. “As Nigeria hits diamond in terms of age, we need to ask some pertinent questions around how women have fared – what gains have we made?” She asked, “Which opportunities have we lost? How can younger women stand on the shoulders of older women so  that they can see farther ahead? “Who should we hold accountable for improving the lives of women in order to enrich the nation on the long run? Why should we hold them accountable?” She noted that those and more were the issues the webinar sought to address along with what exactly is meant when people talk about ‘Accountability for Women’s Rights and Development in the country. The youngest commissioner in Nigeria, Joana Kolo, while thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the Not Too Young To Run bill into law has said she is a beneficiary of the Act. Speaking during a webinar on Accountability for Women’s Development 60 Years After Independence, Kolo, the Commissioner for Sports and Youth in Kwara State said her state governor, Abdulrahman Abddulrazak, had acted on the law by making her a commissioner. Kolo, appointed commissioner in 2019 at the age of 26 was one of several speakers at the webinar on Tuesday organised by BAOBAB for Women’s Human Rights. She is the youngest Commissioner in the country. Another speaker at the event, Hauwa Shekarau called for the participation of more young people in the fight for gender equality. While acknowledging progress made since independence on the ratio of women in politics, Shekarau, a women’s rights activist and the first female chairperson of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Abuja, said there was still a long way to go. Also speaking on the generational involvement, Oluremi Obilade, a professor of women’s studies said her generation needed to stop being overtly and covertly judgemental towards the younger generation. Obilade said they should be able to put themselves in the shoes of the younger generation. Uchenna Idoko, the executive director of Centre for Gender Economics (GCE) Africa said the government first, along with everyone else should be held accountable for gender equality. According to her, the education system, teachers, the school curriculum and even the text in books used in institutions are all part of the challenge.