The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof. Umar Danbatta, has once again dismissed the notion that the introduction of 5G technology in some parts of the world was the caused of the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking at a training programme for ICT reporters on Tuesday, Danbatta warned that misinformation and misrepresentation of 5G technology has the potential of derailing the launch/implementation of this new technology in this part of the world. He said, “Many Nigerians including citizens in more civilized countries were hooked on the notion that the introduction of 5G technology was the reason behind the spread of the novel COVID-19 Pandemic. “This misconception was even made worse because those saddled with the responsibility of informing, educating and enlightening the average Nigerian telecom consumers were also bereft of the knowledge of this new technology and hitched a ride on the band wagon of doubters.” The NCC chief executive said this is the reason why training such as this is necessary for members of NITRA who have continued to cover the ICT industry in Nigeria. He said, “We will ensure that the NCC maintains this training periodically for our crucial stakeholders in the media to ensure that the information that reaches the average Nigerian is accurate and timely. “It is our duty and responsibility to ensure that whatever we want to introduce to the Nigerian telecoms space is well understood by Nigerians and all those who make use of our telecoms services.” He said, “The onus is on all of us here today to make sure that we take this training seriously and take advantage of it to expand on our horizons. This is very necessary so that when we report events or activities relating to the industry, we are able to translate them into a language that the common man will readily understand. “The Commission will continue to support capacity building and other initiatives which foster closer interaction and build stronger relationship with your members.” Danbatta said advancements in Information and Communications Technology (ICT) had reshaped every facet of our human endeavour from how we learn, teach and communicate to advancements in medicine, transportation, space exploration and many more. “We should, indeed, all be thankful to be alive and living well in the midst of the COVID-19 Pandemic. The devastation and destruction caused by the novel corona virus cannot be quantified, but I am happy that the necessary policies and programmes put in place by the Commission have repositioned Nigeria’s Telecoms industry and also provided support for other vital sectors,” Danbatta said. With the shutdown of almost every sector of the economy since the outbreak, he said, telecoms continue to provide government and businesses the platform to operate and transact online to ensure that our developing economy is sustained. He said, “I must applaud every member of NITRA for working assiduously to provide coverage for our activities, as well as provide a platform for our narratives in terms of the various policy initiatives and actions taken to support the national economy. Without your continuous cooperation, understanding and professionalism, the Nigerian audience would not have been properly informed about the activities of the NCC.” On 5G, he said, “A lot of falsehoods and misinformation have been peddled both on online and traditional media outlets about the health and safety implications of deploying 5G technology. “As I stated in my speech during the NITRA Innovative Tech forum, according to a recent landmark economy study conducted by Qualcomm, 5G will affect the global economy and drive growth exponentially. “5G’s full economic effect will likely be realized across the globe by 2035, supporting a wide range of industries and potentially enabling up to $13.2 trillion worth of goods and services. This impact will be much greater than the current 4G network.” 5G when fully deployed, he said, will provide increased speed and bandwidth as well as provide deeper coverage to reach people in rural or challenging locations. In addition, 5G will provide strong security for the various sectors of government and private organizations. Due to its sheer scale and scope, Danbatta said, the ITU predicts 5G will accelerate the achievements of all the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) from affordable and clean energy to zero hunger.