Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has described the death of Mrs. Tola Oyediran, the eldest daughter of  late Chief Obafemi Awolowo as a  great loss to the state and the entire country. Makinde, in a condolence message to the African Newspapers of Nigeria (ANN) Plc.; the publishers of the Tribune  titles, the Oyediran and  the Awolowo families, maintained that Oyediran, who died in Ibadan on Friday, made a huge mark on the society. He said that the deceased who was the  Chairman of ANN Plc. would be remembered for her immense contributions in sustaining the legacies of the sage alongside her sister, Dr. Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosumu, also a co-chairman of the newspaper. A statement by Mr. Taiwo Adisa,  the Chief Press Secretary to Gov. Makinde, indicated that the governor condoled with the widower, Prof. A.B.O.O. Oyediran, and his  children,  as well as Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, wife of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, and  the Vice President himself, who holds close family ties with the departed. The condolence message read: “The news of the death of the chairman of the ANN PLC, publishers of the Tribune titles, Revd. Tola Oyediran, came to me as a shock. I must say that it is painful, and a great loss to the state and the entire country. “She made a huge mark as a daughter of the most respected Nigerian leader that ever was and it is clear that she and her sister, Dr. Awolowo Dosumu, did a great job in sustaining the great legacies of Chief Obafemi Awolowo. READ ALSO: Awolowo’s Eldest Daughter, Omotola Oyediran Is Dead “As  the Chairman of Tribune titles, following the passage of Mama HID Awolowo a few years back, Mrs. Oyediran not only sustained the great legacy, she charted a new course for the oldest surviving private newspaper in Nigeria and the flagship of political journalism. “Mrs. Oyediran’s death, no doubt, is painful. Though we have a cause to celebrate her life, because she lived it well, touching lives positively; it is always painful when one loses a loved one, no matter how old such a person is. “I know this because my mum only passed on a little over 24 hours before our amiable aunt, Mrs. Tola Oyediran, also joined the saints. “I commiserate with the immediate family, the Tribune family, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and his wife, Dolapo, and the entire Awolowo family as a whole. “I pray that God will grant the family the fortitude to bear this loss and also grant repose to the soul of the departed.” (NAN) An head-on collision between a 40feet container truck and a petrol tanker has resulted into an explosion on the Otedola Bridge along Lagos/Ibadan expressway on Saturday. The accident occurred at 2.00 a.m. when the 40fit containerised truck, loaded with fabric, had a brake failure while moving towards Berger. In the process, the truck collided with a tanker loaded with 33000 litres of PMS. The impact of the collision resulted in a fire explosion. READ ALSO: Many Injured, Properties Destroyed As Tanker Explodes In Lagos The Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu confirmed the accident. “On arrival at the incident scene it was discovered that a 40fit containerised truck loaded with fabric had a brake failure while moving inward Berger. “The truck collided with a tanker loaded with 33000 litres of PMS (petrol) while the impact of the collision resulted in the fire outbreak. “No casualty was recorded. “However, the fire affected the 40ft containerized truck and high tension wire at the spot,’’ Oke-Osanyintolu said. He advised commuters to take the Ojota or 7UP exits until the backlog of traffic eases. He said that the Agency’s responders, LRU Fire, Lagos State Fire service, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and Lagos Neighbourhood Security Corps (LNSC) were all present at the incident scene. READ ALSO: Pipeline Explodes In Lagos, Burns Homes The LASEMA boss said that the damping down has been concluded while the agency’s equipment would remove the vehicles from the thoroughfare. A resident of the area, Mr. Johnson Adeoye, narrated that the tanker lost control and rammed unto a trailer with the container. Adeoye said there was fire outbreak immediately after the crash which led to the explosion. (NAN)