The General Overseer of the Redeem Christian Church of God (RCCG), Enoch Adeboye, has thrown his weight behind the protests across the country to bring an end to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force. His church, the RCCG, also on Wednesday released a statement officially endorsing the protests. Adeboye tweeted, “Our daughters will not be able to prophesy and young men will not see visions if we don’t keep them alive. I support the youths in this peaceful protest as they “speak up” to #EndPoliceBrutality!#EndSARS #ENDSWAT.” The RCCG statement was signed by Johnson Odesola, RCCG’s assistant general overseer administration and personnel. Odesola said, “The Redeemed Christian Church of God has identified with Nigerians presently protesting against police brutality and the abuse of power by the very institution established to protect them.” He said, “The Church declared its understanding and appreciation of the concerns and grievances of the youths and the generality of Nigerians and called for an immediate end to police brutality in the country. READ ALSO: ENDSARS: MURIC Urges Protesters To Disband “While noting the constitutional responsibility of the Police to maintain law and order, the Church emphasized the need for the Police to constantly align their strategies with the needs of the people.” Odesola said, “While noting that many innocent lives had been wasted through unnecessary brutality and wrong application of force, the Church calls on the Government to not only restructure the Police but to also re-orientate the officers towards modern ways of policing.” He said, “The Church welcomes the disbandment of the SARS and notes the establishment of a new outfit called the Special Weapons and Tactics Team (SWAT) but warned that it should not become a case of old wine in a new bottle. READ ALSO: Police kills Another #EndSARS Protester “The Church reiterated its call on Government to take urgent steps to tackle the rising rate of unemployment, decay in the nation’s educational system and the general harsh economic situation in the country.” The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved a National Policy on Virtual Engagements in Federal Public Institutions, in line with the culture of “the New Normal” lifestyle occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, disclosed this when he briefed State House correspondents on the outcome of the Council meeting, which was presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja on Wednesday. According to him, the approval followed a joint memorandum submitted to the Council by the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, as well as the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation. READ ALSO: Virtual Interactions Now New Normal-NCC Pantami said, “in January 2020 as we all know, the world was taken by surprise with the emergence of the Coronavirus (COVID-19), which the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared as a global health challenge. “By March 11, 2020, WHO declared the spread of the virus as pandemic, as it ravaged many countries of the world and disrupted the way we conduct our activities. “And now, virtual engagements are becoming the new normal. “It is because of this that we came up with a memo that will institutionalise virtual engagements in federal public institutions to make sure that even after COVID-19, virtual engagement is recognised by the Federal Government as medium of communication.” The minister expressed optimism that the policy, when fully operational, would minimise government spending on public functions and check corrupt practices in Ministries, Departments and Agencies. (NAN)