The Court of Appeal hearing the Bayelsa governorship case has reversed the tribunal ruling, which ordered for new elections after sacking Governor Duoye Diri. A five-man panel of the Appealed Court on Friday unanimously ruled that the judgment of the Governorship Election Tribunal was wrong. READ ALSO: Bayelsa Governor’s One Leg The Tribunal had on August 17, ruled in favour of the petition filed by Lucky King-George, candidate of the Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party, who said he had been wrongly excluded from the November 16, 2020 election by the Independent National Electoral Commission. Subsequently, the tribunal ordered INEC to conduct a fresh poll in the state within 90 days. READ ALSO: Tribunal Annuls Diri’s Election As Bayelsa Governor In it’s own ruling the Appeal Court panel led by Adriza Mshella, held that the petition filed by the ANDP at the lower tribunal was statute-bound. The court also questioned the power of the tribunal to claim jurisdiction over the case. The federal government has given the go ahead for all schools including unity schools and federal institutions of higher learning to reopen from October 12, 2020. The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu annOUnced the new directive at a media briefing on Friday in Abuja. The minister said schools must comply with all safety and COVID-19 protocols. Secondary schools were weeks away from their second term exams when they were forced to close due to the COVID-19 outbreak and remained closed throughout the last term of the academic year. Some states started reopening for the new academic year for secondary schools in the second week of September. Adamu said, “We have consulted widely with all stakeholders in the education sector. Our eyes and ears are opened to the international media. “I’m glad to report that there has not been any single case of COVID-19 in all Unity Schools. No single fatality among the students.” He said, “We have come to the conclusion that we have to review our decisions. After consultation with PTF, we have resolved that our Unity Schools be opened on October 12, 2020.”