The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has alerted telecoms consumers of the fraudulent clone of its Facebook profile account. The Commission in a statement on Saturday signed by its director if public affairs,  Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, said the cloned account was opened with a name similar to the Commission’s official name on the social media site. Adinde said the Commission upon detecting the fake Facebook account with the name “NIGERIA COMMUNICATION COMMISSION OFFICIAL WEBSITE”, deemed it fit to inform members of the public that this account is fake and fraudulent. He said, “From our findings, the fake Facebook group account was created a year ago and has since amassed followership who, the Commission believes, must have inadvertently signed on to the site. “The NCC states that this is a typical case of profile cloning, which represents a severe security issue in social media networks. It is often used to create a fake profile identical to an original one, for the purpose of misleading the unsuspecting general public.” Adinde said, “For the avoidance of doubt, the official and authentic Facebook account of the Commission is: “NIGERIAN COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION” with over 181,580 followers. “The Commission strongly advises Nigerian citizens and all telecom consumers to beware of this fraudulent Facebook account as the NCC has no affiliation with it.” He said, “It is what it is: A CLONED FACEBOOK ACCOUNT, meant to deceive and defraud unsuspecting members of the public.” A former governor of old Kaduna State,Alhaji Balarabe Musa, says Nigeria has not done well in actualising most of the dreams of its founding fathers at 60. Musa told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on telephone on Sunday that the country could be better than its current state if the leaders had done more. According to him ,the aspirations of the country could be achieved if both the leadership and followers resolved to play their part in earnest nation building . “Honestly, the country has not fared well at 60. It is very disappointing that this is where we are. “But things can be better; we can still achieve the dreams of the founding fathers if we all play our role in nation building,”he said. He urged leaders to always make the welfare and well-being of the people the focus of their policies and programmes. The former governor stressed that political and economic restructuring of the country was key for progress “We need to restructure the country politically and economically. We need to ensure that power actually resides with the people. “The economic and political models we are currently operating only empower a few. Governments must be structured to impact posively on the masses,”he said. He decried the security challenges in the country, saying the problem was threatening the progress and prosperity of the nation. Musa said if the country had acted at the right time, the rising cases of banditry and the problem of insurgency could have been averted. “We acted too late. Things are getting out of hand because we did not act at the right time. If we had taken timely actions,we would not been here, “he said. Musa, however, said that the situation could still be reversed “if we sustain doing the right thing,” he said. Musa was elected as governor of Kaduna State on the platform of the Malam Aminu Kano led People’s Redemption party in 1979. He was eventually impeached by a predominantly National Party of Nigeria dominated Kaduna state House of Assembly in 1982, after an intractable dispute.