Former United States Secretary of State, Hillary Rodham Clinton, has told President Muhammadu and the Nigerian Army to stop the killing of unarmed #EndSARS protesters in the country. Mrs. Clinton was reacting to the massacre of young Nigerians who were, on Tuesday Night, gunned down in cold blood at the Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos State, by Nigerian security operatives for protesting against police brutality in the country. Her tweet read, “I’m calling on @mbuhari (President Muhammadu Buhari) and the @hqnigerianarmy (Nigeria Army) to stop killing young #EndSARS protesters. “#StopNigeriaGovernment.” Recall that Nigerian security agents had opened fire on the youths who were protesting peacefully. The shooting forced many of the protesters to run for their lives, with witnesses capturing some of the shooting on video. Videos posted on social media also show casualties from the shootings though there is no verifiable number of those killed from shootings or suffered injury at this time. The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has condemned “reports that security agents are shooting at #EndSARS peaceful protesters at the Lekki Toll gate, Lagos, insisting that it must stop immediately. SERAP in a statement signed by its deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare, on Tuesday evening noted that the Nigerian constitution and human rights treaties require that Nigeria respects and protects the right to life and security of the person, the rights to freedom of expression, association, and peaceful assembly of everyone, including peaceful protesters. “We call on the Nigeria authorities to order a prompt, independent and impartial inquiry into the reports of shooting of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Toll gate by security agents, identify suspected perpetrators and ensure that they are brought to justice without delay.” “All the victims must be allowed access to justice and effective remedies, including adequate compensation, satisfaction and guarantee of non-repetition.” SERAP also called on the International Criminal Court (ICC) to open investigations into cases of attacks on the EndSARS peaceful protesters in the country. “SERAP believes that substantial grounds exist to warrant the intervention of the Prosecutor in this case. Pursuant to the Rome Statute, the Prosecutor has power to intervene in a situation under the jurisdiction of the Court if the Security Council or states parties refer a situation or if information is provided from other sources such as the information that is now publicly available in the country,” the statement added.