The Nigeria Centre For Disease Control (NCDC), has announced 150 new COVID-19 infections in the country. The NCDC made this known via its verified website on Thursday. As Nigeria continued in its fight against COVID-19, it has conducted about 620,758 tests since the first confirmed case was announced in the country. The public health agency also recorded two COVID-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours in the country. It said that the 150 new cases were reported from nine states of the federation. The NCDC added that the total umber of infected people in the country has jumped to 62,521. It also announced that it has successfully treated and discharged 154 patients from isolation centers across the country after they tested negative to the virus. “Our discharges today include 66 community recoveries in Lagos State managed in line with new case management guidelines. “A breakdown of cases by state can be found via covid19.ncdc.gov.ng,” it said. According to the agency, within the last 24 hours, Lagos, the country’s epicenter recorded 89 new  cases, while Rivers, Ogun, Bayelsa and Kaduna reported 19, 11, 9 and 8 cases respectively. Among other states with new infections were Plateau with  8 infections, Taraba three , Osun two and Delta one. “Until date, 62,521 cases have been confirmed, 58,249 patients discharged and 1,141 deaths recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT),” it stated. The public health agency said that a multi-sectoral national Emergency Operations Centre (EOC), activated at Level 3, had continued to coordinate the national response activities. The NCDC said that disregarding the prevention measures for COVID-19 put individuals and people around them at risk of getting infected with the virus. “When you take responsibility to limit the spread of the virus, you protect the vulnerable as well. “The fight against COVID-19 requires our collective effort,” it advised. It stated that cloth masks protect an individual if they were properly worn and cared for. “Wear a mask properly, wash  your cloth face mask  after use and handle your mask with clean hands. “Learn to make your own face mask via: covid19.ncdc.gov.ng/media/files/DI…,” it said. (NAN) The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted hazy and sunny weather conditions from Friday to Sunday across the country. NiMet`s weather outlook released on Thursday in Abuja forecastx a  moderatedust haze over the northwest, with thick dust haze over the northeastern region on Friday. According to the agency, the north central region is expected to be in sunny and hazy condition throughout the forecast period. “A cloudy morning is anticipated over the inland and the coastal cities. “Later in the day, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Asaba, Akure, Awka, Ibadan, Enugu, Osogbo and the coastal cities of the south east,” it said. NiMet envisaged thick dust haze over the northern region throughout the forecast period on Saturday. According to it, the north central region is expected to be in sunny and hazy condition, except over Plateau and parts of Niger where dust haze is anticipated. “Cloudiness is expected over most parts of the inland and coastal cities in the morning hours, with chances of thunderstorm over port-Harcourt. “There are also prospects of thunderstorms over Abakaliki, Awka, Enugu, Ibadan, Obudu, Osogbo, Owerri, Umuahia and the south east coast later in the day,” it said. The agency predicted dust haze over the northern region throughout the forecast period on Sunday. It forecast the north central region to be in sunny and hazy conditions, except over Plateau and parts of Niger, where dust haze was anticipated. “ Cloudy condition is expected over the inland and coastal cities in the morning hours, with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Ikom, Calabar and Port Harcourt. “Later in the day, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Abakaliki, Abeokuta, Akure, Awka, Owerri, Umuahia, Osogbo and the coastal cities,” it added. (NAN)