President Muhammadu leaned further on European Union for their support for Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Nigeria’s candidate for the World Trade Organisation (WTO’s) director-general According to a statement by the President Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the president held a video conference with Mr. Charles Michel, President of the European Council. Adesina said that the EU Council president reiterated Europe’s support for Okonjo-Iweala as the next Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). “The President is leading Nigeria’s charge for Okonjo-Iweala, the country’s former Minister of Finance, to emerge as the first Black and female WTO DG. President Buhari thanked the European Council for its support for Nigeria’s candidate’” Adesina said in the statement. You may recall that Okonjo-Iweala had on Wednesday beat her only remaining competitor, South Korea’s trade minister, Yoo Myung-hee by winning 104 of 164 votes of member states.
However, the US which supports Yoo, had vetoed her subsequent adoption as the consensus candidate. President Buhari also discussed issues bordering on debt relief for Africa, EU-African relations and recharge of the Lake Chad with Michel during the Friday conference. Adesina said, “Recharge of the Lake Chad is an issue the Nigerian President had vigorously canvassed at diverse global fora in recent time. “President Buhari expressed appreciation to Mr. Michel for expected positive developments on the issues.” The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, has told the House Committee on Telecommunications how the telecoms agency contributed to the revenue drive of the Federal Government by generating and remitting N344.71bn to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) in the last five years. Danbatta stated this while briefing the Committee members, led by their Chairman, Hon. (Prince) Akeem Adeyemi, during a legislative oversight function on the Commission in Abuja on Wednesday, October 28, 2020. The EVC attributed the successes of the Commission in the last five years to the harmonious relationship between the Commission and the National Assembly. According to him, the relationship, the diligent oversight by the lawmakers and necessary legislative support have brought forth a lot of dividends for the industry. “Through the support of the lawmakers, especially the House of Representatives Committee on Telecommunications, which the NCC leadership has worked with in the last five years, the Commission has been able to generate and remit N344.71bn to Federal Government Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) from spectrum fees and operating surplus,” he said. Danbatta stated that telecoms sector’s contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) had increased from 8.5 per cent in 2015 to 14.30 percent as of the second quarter of 2020. In financial value, the 14.30 per cent translates to N2.272trn in Q2. He also said that telecoms investment grew from around $38 billion in 2015 to over $70bn currently. Danbatta added that the NCC was promoting financial inclusion by encouraging the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) to actively participate in providing financial services towards actualising FG’s 80 per cent financial inclusion target by 2020. According to him, through the collaboration of critical stakeholders as the National Assembly, the NCC has been able to increase broadband penetration from 6 percent in 2015 to 45.43 per cent as of September, 2020 while basic active internet subscription grew from 90 million to 143.7 million. “Between 2015 and September, 2020, active voice subscription has increased from 151 million to 205.25 percent million with a teledensity standing at 107.53 per cent as at end of September, 2020. We are also empowering and protecting the consumers and ensuring we are able to sanitise the industry of improperly-registered Subscriber identification Module (SIM) cards through our impartial regulatory approach,” Danbatta said. To continue to collaboratively advance the development of the industry, Danbatta listed key areas of collaboration with the House Committee, going forward. These, according to the EVC, include speedy passage of the Commission’s budget, enhancing mutual working relationship and knowledge transfer sessions/capacity building for Committee members for better understanding of the workings of the Commission and the industry. Meanwhile, Honourable Adeyemi, in his address, said the over sight function was in line with relevant sections of the Nigerian 1999 Constitution, as amended, which empowers the House to carry out its role of checks and balances on the executive arm of government under which the NCC, as a Federal agency, falls. The committee commended the leadership of the Commission for its transparency in ensuring remittances to CRF of the Federal Government, considering the current revenue drive of the government. The committee urged the NCC to sustain its current template of ensuring effective regulation of the telecoms sector in a manner that would be more mutually beneficial to the industry players, the consumers of the telecoms services and to the Nigerian government.