Anonymous, a group of international activists known for launching  cyber attacks on government institutions, has hacked the websites of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The group also hacked the website of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The group claimed responsibility for the cyber attacks on the two Nigerian institutions in tweet. It had also claimed for previous attacks on other institutions like the National Broadcasting Commission and the Central Bank of Nigeria. The tweet read, “Official website of @officialEFCC has been taken down in support of #EndSARSProtest. CHECK HOST : https://check-host.net/check-report/df89d3bk838 TARGET : https://efccnigeria.org/efcc/ You should have expected us! #EndCorruptionInNigeria. The cyber attacks followed days of EndSARS street protests across the country over police brutally. The protests have seen major highways blocked by protesting citizens in major cities like Lagos and Abuja. No fewer than 37 police officers could be dismissed and 24 others prosecuted for human rights violations following a recommendation from the presidential panel on the reform of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. A statement by Ikechukwu Ani, the spokesman of the Police Service Commission’s (PSC) on Friday said 113 complaints had been received against some of these officers. He said, “The presidential panel had among other things investigated allegations of human rights violations and abuse of office against SARS and recommended reform or restructuring of the outfit. “We have come to see a PSC determined to play a leading role in the reform of the Nigeria Police Force.” . He said that the panel also directed the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, to unravel the identity of 22 officers involved in the violation of the human rights of innocent citizens. According to the statement, the chairman of the commission, former Inspector General of Police, Musiliu Smith, said that the PSC would collaborate and support the Human Rights Commission in the promotion of good governance. He said that for an effective reform of SARS, there must be a deliberate effort to select capable, professional and credible people to replace the disbanded outfit. “There must also be training and close supervision of the newly-selected officers so that the nation will not experience the rot that became the fate of the disbanded unit. Any misconduct, he noted, should be severely and promptly handled,” Smith said.