The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted hazy and sunny weather conditions from Friday to Sunday across the country. NiMet`s weather outlook released on Thursday in Abuja forecastx a  moderatedust haze over the northwest, with thick dust haze over the northeastern region on Friday. According to the agency, the north central region is expected to be in sunny and hazy condition throughout the forecast period. “A cloudy morning is anticipated over the inland and the coastal cities. “Later in the day, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Asaba, Akure, Awka, Ibadan, Enugu, Osogbo and the coastal cities of the south east,” it said. NiMet envisaged thick dust haze over the northern region throughout the forecast period on Saturday. According to it, the north central region is expected to be in sunny and hazy condition, except over Plateau and parts of Niger where dust haze is anticipated. “Cloudiness is expected over most parts of the inland and coastal cities in the morning hours, with chances of thunderstorm over port-Harcourt. “There are also prospects of thunderstorms over Abakaliki, Awka, Enugu, Ibadan, Obudu, Osogbo, Owerri, Umuahia and the south east coast later in the day,” it said. The agency predicted dust haze over the northern region throughout the forecast period on Sunday. It forecast the north central region to be in sunny and hazy conditions, except over Plateau and parts of Niger, where dust haze was anticipated. “ Cloudy condition is expected over the inland and coastal cities in the morning hours, with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Ikom, Calabar and Port Harcourt. “Later in the day, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Abakaliki, Abeokuta, Akure, Awka, Owerri, Umuahia, Osogbo and the coastal cities,” it added. (NAN) The FCT Minister, Muhammad Bello, has urged all Muslims to adhere to the cardinal principle of peace upon which the religion of Islam is built. Bello made the call in his Eid-El-Maulud message to the residents of FCT, in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. “On behalf of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), I congratulate the Muslim Ummah in the FCT on the occasion of Maulud Nabiyy of our noble Prophet Muhammad for the Islamic year 1442 after Hijra. “As we all know, Maulud is a celebration of the birth of Prophet Muhammad. It is an occasion which calls for sober reflection and spiritual rejuvenation. “As we celebrate this important moment, I urge all Muslims to adhere to that cardinal principle of peace upon which the religion of Islam is built,” Bello said. He also enjoined all Muslims and other residents in the FCT to join their compatriots across the country to ponder deeply on the challenges currently confronting the nation. The minister said there was an urgent need for Muslims to imbibe the true meaning of piety, sacrifice, patience, tolerance and fellowship in their relationship and dealings with fellow residents. “We should not only embrace dialogue in settling our differences, but we should also reject all attempts by unpatriotic individuals or groups to incite violence which in the end is unrewarding. “It is only by embracing dialogue that we can ensure peace in our polity and in this way, the lessons that Eid-el-Maulud teaches would have served its true purpose. “We should also remember that the FCT is built on a foundation of unity and tolerance for all Nigerians. As residents of the FCT, we are obliged to imbibe and practice these principles. “I want to use this occasion, therefore, to appeal to all FCT residents to continue to support efforts of the government to improve governance and revive the economy,” the minister said. (NAN)