The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) commenced a month-long series of enlightenment and campaign activities as part of the 2020 National Cyber Security Awareness Month (NCSAM). The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, while kicking off the activities said the need to be cybersecurity-conscious to guarantee online safety for Internet users was everyone’s business and not reserved for a group of people. The month of October every year is NCSAM globally, aimed at raising awareness about cybersecurity, and to provide the public with general knowledge and tools required for online safety. A statement by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, the director of public affairs at NCC quoted Danbatta as highlighting the increasing number of internet users in different sectors including commerce and financial services who need secured platforms. Danbatta said Internet users across mobile networks in Nigeria currently stand at 149.8 million as at August, 2020, noting that more users are expected online as services in different sectors of the economy are becoming digitalised. He said, the increase in digital financial transactions for e-commence activities calls for greater responsibility on the part of individuals and corporate internet users to protect themselves against cybercrimes. Danbatta said, as the Commission embarks on various policy initiatives to drive pervasive broadband penetration to achieve increased digital inclusiveness, it is not unmindful of those who use Internet to carry out nefarious and dubious activities in the cyber space. “To keep the genuine individual and corporate Internet users safe, the NCC, as regulator of the telecom sector, annually joins the rest of the world to create a lot of enlightenment around cybercrime in the month of October every year. We ensure that consumers are empowered through awareness and sensitisation campaigns, by providing information on both the positive and negative potentials available online, and measures required to safeguard themselves and their loved ones,” the EVC said. Danbatta emphasised that, “Security is not reserved for a group of people, it is truly everyone’s business; bringing competence and knowledge to help build a safer and more inclusive information society.” Danbatta restated the commitment of the Commission to continually embark on policy initiatives to enhance online security as well as educate and equip the consumers of telecoms services with information they need to be protected online. The APC candidate in the Sept. 19 Governorship election in Edo, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, says he will not challenge the outcome of the election at the tribunal. Ize-Iyamu disclosed this in a statement signed by Mr. John Mayaki, his Director of Communication and Media Campaign Organisation on Monday in Benin. This was Ize-Iyamu’s first official statement since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Mr. Godwin Obaseki of the PDP as winner of the election. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Buhari Congratulates Obaseki Ize-Iyamu said, “We must all continue to believe in the electoral process as an important part of the democratic system. “It remains the best method of choosing who leads the people, devoid of violence and avoidable acrimony.” He, however, noted that the said election was fraught with some electoral irregularities, strong enough to warrant challenging its outcome. According to him, contrary to orchestrated media reports, the election was neither free nor fair. There were several episodes of violence, intimidation of voters and falsification of results. “In particular, there were unlawful cancellations of results, particularly from Urhonigbe South and North in Orhiomwon. “Results were falsified from many polling units in Ofunama in Ovia South-West, and in parts of Ovia North-East, Owan West, Oredo, Egor, Ikpoba-Okha, Esan North-East, Esan West, Esan South-East, and Uhunmwode Local Government areas. “Sadly, two persons were killed during the election, while gun-wielding thugs took over collation centres in many locations without the intervention of law-enforcement agents. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: PDP Wins Oyegun’s Polling Unit “There were also several cases of malfunctioning of card readers, which disenfranchised duly registered voters, in addition to many cases of unregistered voters voting with pre-purchased voters’ cards not collected by their actual owners. “These malpractices could easily form the basis to challenge the election results. We have, however, decided not to commence an election petition. “This is to avoid further tension in the state. “We are also mindful that the leadership of our great party, APC and many well-placed individuals have made pronouncements endorsing the process, which we have chosen to respect,’’ Ize-Iyamu said. He said that they have consequently,  decided to continue with the pre-election cases in full exercise of “our legal rights, just as our opponents have considered it their prerogative to also continue with their pre-election cases against us’’. Ize-Iyamu thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for his statesmanship and support throughout the election campaign. READ ALSO: Hold Me Responsible For States Lost To PDP – Buhari He also commended the Oba of Benin, Ewuare 11, and religious leaders for their fervent prayers before, during and after the election and APC supporters including Edo people for their belief in his candidature. “Let me conclude by noting that our cause to uplift our state using the democratic system is a noble mission from which we SHALL NEVER waiver. (NAN)