The United States has called for immediate investigation into the excessive use of force by the military in the alleged killing of unarmed protesters at Lekki toll gate in Lagos. In a statement on Thursday, the Secretary of State, Michael Pompeo specifically mentioned Tuesday’s shooting of protesters at the Lekki toll gate in Lagos. “We welcome an immediate investigation into any use of excessive force by members of the security forces. “Those involved should be held to account in accordance with Nigerian law,” Pompeo said. He strongly condemned the use of excessive force by security agents against unarmed protesters in the country. “The United States strongly condemns the use of excessive force by military forces who fired on unarmed demonstrators in Lagos, causing death and injury. He noted that peaceful assembly and freedom of expression were “essential human rights and core democratic principles” that should be respected by authorities. He urged the security forces to exercise maximum restraint and “respect fundamental rights and for demonstrators to remain peaceful”. “We extend our condolences to the victims of the violence and their families. “We welcome an immediate investigation into any use of excessive force by members of the security forces,” he said. (NAN) Former governor of Lagos, Bola Tinubu has condemned the Tuesday night shooting of protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate by soldiers of the Nigerian Army. In a telephone interview with Channels Television that has gone viral on the social media, Tinubu expressed shock at the shooting, saying he had a history of being an activist, a protester. He said, “I released a statement appealing to the conscience of all Nigerians, all the protesters as well. And I sided with them that what they are doing is right. “They have a right to free speech, freedom of association and freedom to complain. I have done it before, and that they shouls6please call off the protests.” He said, “Suddenly, I received a call that army, Nigerian soldiers, had attacked the protesters. I was shocked. In the process of all these enquiries,  I started picking numbers. “Usually, if I don’t have your name, i won’t pick your number, unless you come through my P.A.” Tinubu also denied any insinuation he ordered the attack, saying, “I will never be part of any carnage. The use of live ammunition is condemnable in totality. “There is a limitation here, I can only control my personal security guards,” He said, “It is early hours of the morning, there’s no way I can talk to the authorities or wake them up now. I have tried to reach the NSA, I have tried to reach the head of the army. “You don’t call the president at this hour, but I strongly condemn the act. There are other means of settling or dispersing protest. Why would they use live bullets? There are rubber bullets.” “I am not even sure yet they are Nigerian army, I am not sure how well the uniforms of the army are controlled. But that is not as critical as the bloodshed that has occurred,” he said.