Hoodlums in Onitsha, Anambra, have destroyed the statue of Nigeria’s first president Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, erected in the city. The hoodlums are suspected to be some of those who hijacked the #EndSARS protest to wreak havoc. The statute, located at Denis Memorial Grammar School roundabout in Onitsha, was erected months ago by Governor Willie Obiano to further beautify the city. While vandalising the statue, the hoodlums, armed with dangerous weapons including machetes, were heard venting their anger against the late Nigerian statesman. “You are the cause of our trouble,” was one of the uncomplimentary remarks the hoodlums chanted. One of Azikiwe’s kinsmen, Mr Victor Ononye, described the incident as “heresy and sacrilegious’’. He said Dr Azikiwe must be expressing regrets at the action as the deceased statesman was one of the architects of independent Nigeria. “What happened at the DMGS Roundabout, Onitsha, which I saw with my own eyes, evoked tears,” he said. He called the hoodlums, who hung a disused tyre on statue before dousing it with petrol and torching it, many unprintable names. “They decapitated the hand and went away with his title staff. That is the height of ingratitude by ignorant people who know nothing about history,’’ he said. Ononye said the hoodlums destroyed all the ornaments used in beautifying the site of the statue. “They were few in number. Why the police, a stone throw away to the roundabout, could not intervene, was a mystery. “All the iron bars erected round the site were removed. All the decorative lights and materials around the site were vandalised. “I saw two vigilante men brandishing rifles and riding on a motorcycle. They stopped and the boys hailed them and they rode off. “It is a pity! Zik of Africa; the sage, who facilitated the end of the Nigeria civil war; Zik who built Nigeria’s foremost University for excellence in the education, doesn’t deserve this,” he lamented. (NAN) The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control(NCDC) has confirmed 77 new cases of COVID-19 in the country. The agency made this known via its verified wedsite on Friday. The NCDC said that the 77 new cases brought the nation’s confirmed cases to 61,882. As the country keeps up the fight against COVID-19, the spread of the virus continues to slow down. According to the agency, the latest update shows that the country recorded 77 new infections with two COVID-19 related deaths in 10 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the last 24 hours in the country. The public health agency said that the  number of recoveries stood at 57,190, as 205 patients were discharged across the nation in the last 24 hours. The NCDC said that Lagos State recorded the bulk of the new infections with 11 cases, while Kaduna, Rivers and FCT confirmed 20, 19 and 4 new cases. Others were; Osun state with  3 cases  of the virus, Ondo, Sokoto, Kwara and Benue confirmed 2 cases each, while Imo and Ogun reported 1 case each. The NCDC said it had conducted 602,239 tests since the first confirmed case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic was announced. According to it, as at Oct. 24, 2020, 77 new confirmed cases and two deaths were recorded in the country. The agency noted that till date, 61,882 cases were confirmed, 57,190 cases discharged and 1,129 deaths recorded in 36 states of the federation and the FCT. It added that a multi-sectoral national Emergency Operations Centre (EOC), activated at Level 3, had continued to coordinate the national response activities. (NAN)