The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, on Saturday paid a courtesy visit to the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, where he urged the people of the state to continue to support the Federal Government’s initiatives toward ensuring peace and stability in the country. Danbatta, an indigene of Kano, commended the Emirate Council and the entire people of Kano for their unwavering support to the government. Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of public affairs quoted Danbatta in a statement Saturday, as saying Nigeria deserves a long period of peace and stability in order to achieve sustainable growth and development. The NCC chief executive said the Federal Government had come up with various initiatives on youth empowerment, especially through provision of digital skills and literacy. Bayero, who thanked the NCC boss and his entourage for the visit, commended President Muhammadu Buhari, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami and the EVC for the excellent performance of the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) industry. Bayero pledged to continue to support the Federal Government on its developmental initiatives,  urging all leaders to continue to promote peaceful coexistence in the country. Bola Tinubu, former Lagos governor, has said that victims of the shootings at the Lekki Toll Gate last week must answer questions on how they came to be present at the scene of the shootings and how long they were there for. The All Progressives Congress (APC) leader was answering questions from journalists on Saturday, when he visited Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Tinubu denied that either he or his son had fled the country at any time during the protests against police brutality. Tinubu said, “They say Seyi, my son, was kidnapped, was chased out. He is here. Look at him. This is him. I didn’t pay a penny to bring him here.  Maybe governor will give him pocket money. Equally too, ask him, pointedly, did he order the attack or if he didn’t order the attack, who ordered it? Was it to his knowledge that people were attacked? That is all I needed from him.” He said, “First, we have to segregate the calendar. Those who suffered casualty before the protests in the hands of SARS, you have to separate that from those who suffered casualty due to events at the toll gate. “For those who suffered from that, I think they set up the commission of inquiry, which will unearth all that occurred and make its recommendation. I trust, with the caliber and characters of the people there, they are independent. That is why.” He said,  “Those who suffered casualties during the gun shots need to answer some questions too. How were they there, how long were they there? What kind of characters are they? Even though we want to help, we still must extract information that will help the government to prepare in future to understand how and when to react, because the government, the governor in particular is a youth. “A youth himself, he quickly went to Abuja with the fight for five. The government immediately put into action, dissolved SARS and had to work through other recommended actions, that were demanded.” He said, “Within few days, he reported back to the public we saw on television, he delivered the message to the president. The president didn’t say no. the president gave him appointment within few hours. “That is responsive enough for people. But why are we getting the looting, the carnage, the burning, the invasion of police station, and the stealing of arms, and maiming the innocent. It is handshake beyond the elbow. I didn’t go nowhere. I am a Lagosian and I still hold the title of Asiwaju of Lagos, and I am still the Jagaban.”