The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) says Lagos State recorded the highest Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of N204.51bn in the first half of 2020. The NBS disclosed this in its Internally Generated Revenue at State Level (H1 2020) report made available on its website on Tuesday. It said the second state with the next highest IGR was Rivers with N64.59bn, while Jigawa recorded the least IGR with N3bn. Meanwhile, the IGR figure of the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) was N612.87bn in the period under review compared to N693.91bn recorded in 2019. READ ALSO: Lagos Had N90bn Surplus In 2019 – State Government The figures indicated a negative growth of -11.7 per cent year on year. Similarly, the IGR figures of states and the FCT in the second quarter of 2020 was put at N259.73bn compared to N353.14bn recorded in the first quarter of 2020. The figures also represented a negative growth of -26.5 per cent quarter on quarter. READ ALSO: Yahaya Bello To Spend N400m On Government House Sanitation The NBS said that it computed states IGR data in collaboration with the Joint Tax Board from official records and submissions by the 36 State Boards of Internal Revenue. “These submissions are then validated and authenticated by the Joint Tax Board which is chaired by the Federal Inland Revenue Service and has the NBS and the 36 State Boards of Internal Revenue as members.” Nigerian investors who bought shares in South Africa based telecommunications company MTN are already N1trn richer since the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) compelled compelled the firm to list its shares on the Nigeria Stock Exchange. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said actions it took to facilitate the listing of MTN Nigeria on the country’s stock exchange market has continued to bring economic gains to Nigeria and Nigerians. The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta said the listing of MTN had boosted market capitalisation and is yielding dividends to shareholders. The director of public affairs at NCC, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, said in a statement on Tuesday that market analysts report that MTN investors have raked in approximately N1 trillion in price appreciation and dividends since April 2020. The listing of MTN was as a result of NCC’s effective regulatory action taken during the mobile network operator’s fine settlement agreement in 2016, which compelled the telco to, among other things, list on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The listing was one of the outcomes of the NCC’s stringent regulatory posture, which served as tonic for other telcos such as Airtel to follow the same direction. As the country’s independent telecoms regulatory authority, the NCC, working with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), facilitated the landmark listing of the country’s largest telecommunications operator on the bourse. “This is in line with its mandate to promote investment, create a level-playing field for all licensees, ensure compliance to existing telecoms laws and facilitate delivery of top-notch quality of service (QoS) to consumers,” said the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta. According to Danbatta, through this proactive regulation and timely intervention by the NCC, which lead to the listing of MTN on the NSE, a new vista of opportunity has been created in the history of telecommunications industry in Nigeria. “That important regulatory action enabled Nigerians, consistent with the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) 2003, to partly, own, manage and control MTN. This bold and courageous regulatory action is now transforming lives and boosting the economy,” the EVC stated. Danbatta also stated that the listing has helped to translate into action, an important objective of the Commission, which is to promote local investment and ownership in the telecom sector. “With MTN shares available in the capital market, it is expected that Nigerians will buy shares and by purchasing the shares of MTN, they will be financially empowered and be socially transformed,” he said. Stating that telecoms is a capital-intensive industry that requires continuous investment, Danbatta said the listing will enable the telecoms companies to raise capital for the expansion of their networks. “Also, one of the benefits of listing on the NSE is that telcos have enormous opportunity for raising more capital for network expansion, which will, in turn, bring about improvement in the quality of service delivery and quality of experience for telecom consumers,” he said. The EVC further stated, “Today, the capital market regulator and shareholder bodies have commended the effort of the NCC in making the capital market more resilient through the Commission’s regulatory action in facilitating telcos listing.” He noted that the listing in the stock exchange will promote liquidity amongst operators, enhance their value as well as promote transparency. “The Commission is committed, through its regulatory policies and actions, to creating the right environment to attract both Foreign Direct Investment (FDIs) and local investment into the telecom industry for increased economic prosperity for Nigerians,” the EVC said.