An head-on collision between a 40feet container truck and a petrol tanker has resulted into an explosion on the Otedola Bridge along Lagos/Ibadan expressway on Saturday. The accident occurred at 2.00 a.m. when the 40fit containerised truck, loaded with fabric, had a brake failure while moving towards Berger. In the process, the truck collided with a tanker loaded with 33000 litres of PMS. The impact of the collision resulted in a fire explosion. READ ALSO: Many Injured, Properties Destroyed As Tanker Explodes In Lagos The Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu confirmed the accident. “On arrival at the incident scene it was discovered that a 40fit containerised truck loaded with fabric had a brake failure while moving inward Berger. “The truck collided with a tanker loaded with 33000 litres of PMS (petrol) while the impact of the collision resulted in the fire outbreak. “No casualty was recorded. “However, the fire affected the 40ft containerized truck and high tension wire at the spot,’’ Oke-Osanyintolu said. He advised commuters to take the Ojota or 7UP exits until the backlog of traffic eases. He said that the Agency’s responders, LRU Fire, Lagos State Fire service, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and Lagos Neighbourhood Security Corps (LNSC) were all present at the incident scene. READ ALSO: Pipeline Explodes In Lagos, Burns Homes The LASEMA boss said that the damping down has been concluded while the agency’s equipment would remove the vehicles from the thoroughfare. A resident of the area, Mr. Johnson Adeoye, narrated that the tanker lost control and rammed unto a trailer with the container. Adeoye said there was fire outbreak immediately after the crash which led to the explosion. (NAN) The Kano State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), said that 54 persons lost their lives and 30,356 houses destroyed due to flooding this raining season in the state. Dr. Saleh Jili, Executive Secretary of the agency, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Friday in Kano. Jili said that the data which cut across the 44 Local Government Areas of the state was recorded from June to date. The Nigeria Metrological Agency (NiMeT) in collaboration with Nigerian Hydrological Service Agency (NIHSA) predicted 20 LGAs iñ the state as flood prone areas this season. READ ALSO: Flood Disaster: Kwara Governor Visits Buhari, Seeks Help For 15,000 Victims Jili listed the affected LGAs as Rogo; Kabo, Gezawa, Bebeji, Kura, Gwarzo, Shanono, Wudil and Gaya. Others were Danbatta; Bagwai, Rimin Gado, Ungogo, Gwale, Warawa, Tarauani, Nasarawa, Dala, Kumbotso, and Kano Municipal among others.’ “30,356 houses destroyed and 54 persons lost their lives with 81 persons injured due to flood, windstorm and rainstorm from June to date. “The agency has recorded 2,177 fire outbreaks and 9,127 farmlands destroyed to the disaster,” he said. READ ALSO: Kebbi Women Resort To Prayers Against Insecurity, Flooding
“The displaced persons are taking shelter with their relatives in the affected communities. “We are at the affected areas to sympathise with the victims and distributed relief materials to alleviate their sufferings,” he said. Jili said the items distributed included bags of cement, grain, roofing sheets, blankets, Mattress, and toiletries among others. The secretary urged wealthy individuals and donor organisations to assist the victims, and called on the people to clear water ways to prevent flooding. (NAN)