The Grade 1 Area Court, Nyanya and Senior Magistrate Court, Kano have convicted seven suspected for for offences bordering on violation of SIM registration laws in the country on September 4, 2020 and October 24, 2020 respectively. Describing the conviction as part of its commitment to stop the use of unregistered SIM cards to perpetrate cybercrime and other criminal activities in the country, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said its efforts are yielding results. Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of public affairs, said in a statement on Sunday that the Commission, through concerted enforcement efforts with the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC), as well as the Department of State Services (DSS), secured court convictions for SIM card related offences. He said, the offenders, Bako Joseph Boy, Umar Kabiru Abdullahi, Lawal Sani, Shamsuddin Aliyu, George Eze, Ayuba Ishak, and Kabiru Ali were convicted for various SIM card related offences. Specifically, the first convict, Bako Joseph Boy, was charged with the sale of SIM cards outside controlled environment, while the other six were arraigned on the charge of the sale of fraudulently registered SIM cards. Adinde said, “The offences were contrary to section 517 of the Criminal Code Act; Section 65 (1) of the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) 2003 and Section 65 (2) of the NCC Act, 2003 and punishable under the same Act. “The suspects, who pleaded guilty to the charge preferred against them were subsequently convicted as charged and sentenced to two months imprisonment with an option to pay a fine of N15,000 and six months imprisonment or the option of fine in the sum of N20,000.” Adinde said the arrest of the suspects followed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the NCC, NSCDC and DSS to strengthen inter-agency collaboration towards curbing the criminal act of registering and selling of pre-registered SIM cards in the country. He said, “The use of pre-registered SIM cards gives cover for unwholesome activities like kidnapping, call masking, threat to lives, bullying, armed robbery, identity theft financial crimes and SIM swap fraud, among others. “The general public is encouraged to stop the sale, purchase and use of pre-registered SIM cards as it constitutes a punishable offence under the law.” The Nigerian police shot dead a yet-to-be identified man was shot dead on Monday during the #EndSARS protest at Surulere area of Lagos State. Some protesters who shared the video of the deceased protester said medical personnel who stationed at the protest tried to save his life but he eventually died. Police officers in surulere reportedly started shooting at unarmed peaceful protesters during the protest in Surulere. A police officer was also said to have been shot and killed from one of the stray bullets during the shooting. Today’s shooting is coming two days after Jimoh Isiaka, another protester, was shot dead in Ogbomoso, Oyo Statt.