The Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo has responded to the killings of peaceful protesters at Lekki Toll Gate on Tuesday night, promising justice for them all. Tweeting his condolences on late on Wednesday, the vice president said, “My heart goes out to all the victims of the Lekki shootings, and also the  policemen and all other men and women who lost their lives in the past few days in different parts of Lagos & other states.” He said, “I spoke to some of those in hospital. The pain of these terrible events is palpable in our towns and cities, and some losses are irreplaceable, but we can and will get justice for all of them. “I stand with Lagos & all other affected states in these trying times. We pray we will never see a repeat of these tragedies in Jesus name. God bless you all.” There has been wide spread condemnation over the killing of unarmed protesters in Lagos on Tuesday night with Amnesty International reporting that 12 people were killed. Armed thugs on Wednesday invaded the head office of the Nation Newspaper in Lagos and set it on fire. Several public institutions and private businesses were also burnt down by thugs in Lagos protesting police brutality across the country. Apart from the Nation, offices of its sister network, TV Continental was also set on fire on Wednesday. A number police stations, palace of the Oba of Lagos and office of the Nigeria Port Authority in Marina were all torched by the hoodlums. Editor of the Nation, Adeniyi Adesina, in a statement on Wednesday, explained how the thugs arrived, looted the premises and set it on fire. He said, “Armed men on motorcycles invaded the headquarters of The Nation on Fatai Atere Way, Matori, Lagos on Wednesday afternoon. In a commando-like manner, they kicked their way into the premises after scaring away security men on duty, brandishing their sophisticated guns. “They poured petrol on the frontage of the building and set fire to it.
Some of the vehicles parked within the premises were set ablaze, others vandalised.” He said, “Many boys came thereafter and swooped on the office, looting everything they could lay their hands on. These include desktop computers, laptops, air conditioners and other office equipment. “At the time of the attack, Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief, Mr. Victor Ifijeh, was among those trapped within the office while the fire raged on. They were evacuated when men of Operation Mesa security outfit arrived. Their arrival ended the free rein of the invaders. It was obviously a targeted attack on the free press.” Adesina said, “The Nation had been listed on Twitter and other social media platforms by sympathisers of the ongoing destructive activities, as a target of attack. The Nation has robustly reported the protests fairly, giving voice to the agitation of youths for a better Nigeria.”