President Muhammadu Buhari again on Thursday received further briefing from his predecessor, former President Goodluck Jonathan, on the political situation in Mali at the State House, Abuja. Jonathan is the ECOWAS Special Envoy/Mediator to the small West African country. Buhari was happy that the Malian situation had calmed down considerably, following interventions by ECOWAS leaders. READ ALSO: Mali Soldiers Invite Politicians To Form Transitional Government The stated, “We can’t do hop, step and jump like other developed nations of the world, but one is delighted at the successes recorded.” The Presidency recalled that after the intervention by the military in Mali, ECOWAS had insisted on a transition government led by a civilian, and return to Constitutional order within 12-18 months, among others. Briefing Buhari on the latest developments, Jonathan said the assignment given to him by ECOWAS leaders was almost fully done, noting that a government with a largely civilian face had been inaugurated in Mali. READ ALSO: What Is Mali Telling Africa? The former President said, “The President has been sworn in, the Prime Minister, and Ministers too. The military has only four portfolios for serving officers, and the government has taken off. The Council, which will work like parliamentarians, will be inaugurated soon.” Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, stated that the Chairman of ECOWAS, President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana, would formally brief West African leaders soon on the latest milestones in Mali. The FCT Minister, Mohammed Musa Bello, has placed a ban on public protests in the territory without specifically mentioning the EndSARS protests. He instead cited COVID-19 protocols put in place to contain the spread of the Coronavirus disease. In a statement on Thursday, Anthony Ogunleye, the Chief Press Secretary to the minister said the the protesters were putting the lives of other citizens in danger. Ogunleye said, “The FCT Security Committee met for its routine meeting on Tuesday October 13, 2020, to review the security situation in the Federal Capital Territory with a view to addressing identified challenges.” He said, ”While the Committee recognizes the rights of citizens as regards freedom of association and movement as enshrined in the constitution, it has observed that the unruly conduct of the crowd and manner of demonstrations are in complete violation of the COVID-19 safety protocols which were put in place to safeguard the lives of citizens. “These violations endanger the lives of not just the demonstrators, but also other citizens going about their legitimate concerns.” He said, “For the avoidance of doubt, the COVID-19 guidelines regulating public gatherings recommend physical distancing, temperature checks, the use of facial coverings, amongst others. “Clearly all these guidelines were flouted by the protesters. Consequently, the Committee directs that due to the dangers posed by COVID-19, all street demonstrations, protests and processions will not be allowed anywhere within the FCT.”