The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has responded to cries and protests by citizens and announced the dismantling he Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS). The IGP said on Sunday that officers and men currently serving in the unit will be redeployed with immediate effect. Frank Mba, the spokesman of the Nigeria Police said in a statement that, ”In the finest spirit of democratic, citizen-centred and community policing, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni has today, 11th October, 2020, dissolved the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) across the 36 State Police Commands and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) where they hitherto existed” He said, ”In addition, the Force is constituting an Investigation Team which shall include Civil Society Organizations and Human Rights Bodies to work with the Police in investigating alleged cases of human rights violations. “The measure, the IGP believes, will enhance transparency and accountability in police services as well as providing a system of deterrence for erring police officers whose action clearly violates the rights of the citizenry.” READ ALSO: EndSARS Protesters Storm Force Headquarters He said, ”The IGP, while noting that the dissolution of SARS is in response to the yearnings of the Nigerian people, observes that by this dissolution, all officers and men of the now defunct Special Anti-robbery Squad are being redeployed with immediate effect. ”The IGP notes that the Force is not oblivious of the ever present need to combat armed robbery, kidnapping and other violent crimes in the country which was before now the core mandate of the erstwhile Squad. He assures that a new policing arrangement to address anticipated policing gaps the dissolution of SARS would cause has been evolved and shall be announced in due course.” Mba said, ”Meanwhile, as part of measures to prevent a re-occurrence of events that gave rise to the dissolution of SARS, a Citizens’ and Strategic Stakeholders’ Forum is being formed to regularly interface with Police leadership at all levels and advise on police activities as they affect the general public. ”The IGP appreciates and commends all citizens particularly those who genuinely express their concerns for a better policing orientation in an organized, patriotic and civil manner. He reaffirms the determination of the Force to bequeath to the country a Police Force and System that is professional in service delivery and most importantly, accountable to the people.” President Donald Trump of the United States on Saturday conducted his first in-person event since testing positive for the coronavirus, proclaiming that he is “feeling great,” as he seeks to reboot his embattled re-election bid. “We got to vote these people into oblivion,” Trump said addressing hundreds of supporters from the White House balcony. “We’re starting very, very big with our rallies, and with our everything, because we cannot allow our country to become a socialist nation,”  he added. Trump’s public engagement comes after the White House doctor on Thursday gave the president green light to emerge from coronavirus isolation this weekend, after he tested positive 10 days ago. Later on Saturday Trump’s doctor, Sean Conley, said the president “is no longer considered a transmission risk to others.” However, Conley did not say if Trump had received a negative coronavirus test result, raising concerns that the doctor’s short memo on Saturday may not accurately portray the president’s health situation. According to U.S. health agencies’ guidelines, people, who contract the coronavirus can remain contagious for at least 10 days after the onset of symptoms, though this can last even longer for more severe cases. There appeared to be no social distancing in place among the hundreds of Trump supporters at the White House – part of an organisation of conservative black and Latino voters – although many supporters wore masks. “We’re making sure we’re taking precautions,” White House spokesperson Alyssa Farah said on Saturday, prior to the event. Trump emerged from the White House wearing a mask that he quickly removed before speaking for roughly 20 minutes. He repeated his claim that the virus, which has killed more than 210,000 Americans, is “disappearing” and touted himself as the best president for the black community “since Abraham Lincoln”. The president, who is trailing Democratic candidate Joe Biden by a significant margin in the polls, has eagerly sought to return to in-person campaigning after his illness sent him to the hospital for days. Saturday’s event functioned as a campaign rally, although it was scheduled as part of Trump’s presidential duties. On Monday the president will conduct his first official rally in Florida. Trump’s insistence on in-person events contradicts his own public health experts, who say avoiding large groups along with social-distancing and mask-wearing are essential to battle the pandemic. The White House has already faced criticism for hosting large events where mask-wearing is largely dispensed with and that appear to have spread the virus. The top US infectious disease expert, Anthony Fauci, said on Friday that a gathering in the White House Rose Garden on Sept. 26 was a “super-spreader event” after numerous people who attended were infected, including Trump. Trump’s first campaign rally during the pandemic in June is also believed to have contributed to a coronavirus spike in Tulsa, Oklahoma, according to local officials. (NAN)