Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara says that his administration has entered into a N5 billion gold supply deal with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The governor made the disclosure on Tuesday in Gusau, at a press conference to present the 31-kilogramme Zamfara processed gold. He said that the state government would, at an agreed time during the year, supply the gold equivalent of the amount. “Following the global acceptance of the high quality of the gold dug from the state, the apex bank approached us with the deal, which we believe is a good business. At the moment, we have commenced our gold reserve with this 31 kilogramme of pure gold and I have presented the sample of the commodity to the president. READ ALSO: Insecurity: How Foreigners Exchange Arms For Gold In Zamfara – Governor Matawalle “This is the first of time, in the history of our country, that a state will discover its internal potential in gold and channel it in developing the economy of the state,” Matawalle noted. He said that the state’s gold reserve would be deposited in an undisclosed designated place, which could be utilised in times of need. “We have to diversify our state economy, especially with the bitter economic experience we went through as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, collapse in oil prices and other economic uncertainties cutting across the globe. “In gold however, we expect better and higher returns than in other stocks because there is higher multiplier effect in gold and it will enhance the gains of our local miners towards the attainment of the Zamfara of our dream,” he said. The governor did not state the current market price of gold so as to know how much it would cost the state government to buy the 31 kilogramme. He, however, referred to google for the price, which he explained, changed on an hourly basis, sometimes. (NAN) President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, says the Senate is committed to pursuing the dreams of the late Senator Rose Oko especially on her quest for development of education in Nigeria. Lawan said this in an interview with journalists in Abuja on Tuesday, shortly after signing the condolence register at the valedictory section in honour of the late senator, who died on March 23. Lawan, who described the passage of the senator as a very painful loss, however, said her achievements in education and public service were impactful. “Those issues that she dreamt about, issues of education for our children particularly, national unity and national development are issues we will continue to focus on in the Senate. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Nigerian Senator, Rose Oko, Dies In UK “We will continue to look for ways, means and mechanism to empower the education sector in Nigeria to provide education at such affordable cost and ensure availability. “We believe that the 14 million out-of-school children should not be in the streets in Nigeria. If it means taking out two million or three million per year out of the streets, we are under obligations to do so as a country. “Education must be a right because you cannot get the best out of your people, if you do not educate them. Because, at the end of the day you will be lost, the country will be the worse for it; so we must give these children education and give people the opportunity to render their potential.” Lawan also said the life and attributes and achievements of the late Senator Oko signified national unity, hence the need for all Nigerians to be united to develop the nation. “We need to be united in this country; we have no reason to be fighting each other on the basis of ethnic or religious backgrounds in this country. “Nigeria is a country that has come to stay; what we need to do is to continuously look into the best ways possible of ensuring that we provide avenues to improve on governance. READ ALSO: Senate President Mourns Senator Rose Oko “Senator Rose Oko never cared where someone came from, all she cared for was if someone was a Nigerian and she related with all of us very well. As politicians, we need to come together and provide leadership that will bring people together. ]“Whenever you have been given the mandate, try to help to build the country because there is need to have a country before you can become anything. “And you need to have people to be given the services they need, the education they need the health they need, then you have something to build your country on. If we continue to just fight on the basis of political parties or ethnic background, or religious persuasion, Nigeria will not make progress and that will be unfortunate.” (NAN)