A political pressure group, APC Professionals Forum, has cautioned organisers of the #EndSARS protests in the country to exercise restraint while pushing for better policing and good governance. The forum gave the advice in a statement issued by Mr Gerald Ekwunife, its Publicity Secretary. Ekwunife said that though the conduct of some officers of the defunct Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) was condemnable, the protesters should maintain peace while expressing their grievances against the unit. “APC Professionals Forum, is an assembly of partisan professionals who have volunteered to serve as guardians of the change mantra of the ruling party and promoters of good governance. “We condemn the dehumanisation and criminality of some SARS operatives in the course of their duties. “While we support the genuine cause and agitations for Police reforms, we believe that it should be done within the ambits of the law and not to further compound the problems of our people. “The calls for reforms is a call that is long overdue and is a process in the right direction. “As a group of professionals, we are abreast with the facts that the ENDSARS protests are geared towards ensuring human rights and solving institutional corruption that has affected our existence 60 years after independence,” he said He said that organisers of the protests need to now stand down and allow the government to institutionalise Police reforms. He said, “We call on Nigerian youths and the protests organisers to exercise caution in their ongoing agitations, especially as the government has set machinery in motion to meet all their five-point demands. “We must not allow miscreants and agents of anarchy to hijack the peaceful protest to ferment further hardship on Nigerians. “Allowing agents of anarchy to loot small businesses and offices as well as blocking access to highways and roads to hospitals and shops as well as offices will further compound the hardships that Nigerians are presently experiencing.” Meanwhile, the forum commended the Federal Government for yielding to the protesters demands by disbanding SARS and setting up processes to fast track Police reforms. (NAN) The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control has announced 133 new cases of Coronavirus in the country. The NCDC made this known on its official twitter handle on Sunday The country recorded two new casualties bringing the total death toll  to 1,125. The agency said that 54 patients were discharged from isolation centres across the country. It stated that the new 133 cases were detected in nine  states including the Federal Capital Territory. The NCDC said  that Lagos State recorded the highest new infections with 90 confirmed cases, while Rivers State recorded 13 cases. This was followed by Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Kaduna State with eight new cases each. According to the agency, since the beginning of the outbreak in Nigeria in February, more than 578,841 samples have been tested by NCDC, out of which 61,440 were positive. “Till date, 61,440 cases have been confirmed, 56,611 cases have been discharged and 1,125 deaths have been recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory,” it said. The health agency said that a multi-sectoral national emergency operations centre (EOC), activated at Level 3, have continued  to coordinate the national response activities across the country. Meanwhile, the agency noted that older people of 60 years and above had higher risks of complications from COVID-19 infection, especially those with underlying health conditions. “Protect yourself: Wear a mask in public places, Wash hands with soap and water Stay away from people with no face mask. “A properly worn facemask prevents droplets from landing on surfaces when you cough or sneeze. “As you step out, remember to: Wear a facemask. Observe physical distancing and wash your hands frequently,” it advised. (NAN)