President Muhammadu Buhari is currently holding a meeting with former heads of states, presidents and his Service Chiefs over protests against police brutality that has now turned violent. The former leaders, including Yakubu Gowon, Olusegun Obasanjo, Ernest Shonekan, Andulsalam Abubakar and Goodluck Jonathan joined the Friday meeting virtually. The meeting reportedly started at about 10am and was convened by the president to discuss the unfolding events in the country. The Security Chiefs in attendance are however present at the Council Chambers of the State House with the President. Also present at the Council Chambers are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari and the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno. The Service Chiefs present include the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olanisakin; Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; Director General Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi and Director General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Rufai. The Feminist Coalition, a nonprofit organisation, which has received N147m to donations and disbursed N60m on the protests against police brutality says it will be cutting off funding of the EndSARS protests. In a statement jointly signed by 14 members of the organisation on Thursday, the Feminist Coalition said it would channeling the remaining N87m towards relief for victims of police brutality and medical Bill’s of those wounded in the protests. The statement read, “The Feminist Coalition condemns every form of violence and believes that no Nigerian life is worth losing to senseless violence. “We are young Nigerians with hopes, dreams and aspirations for our country. This means we need to stay alive to pursue our dreams to build the future.” The coalition said the past two weeks had been tough for many Nigerians, most especially the last two days with many lives lost and properties destroyed at the height of what started as peaceful marches for the end to police brutality. The Feminist Coalition “condoles with every Nigerian mother, father, son, daughter who has lost a loved one in these trying times.” These Nigerians, the coalition said, shared the same vision for a better country as we all do and should be duly recognized as heroes. The coalition said, “Our priority is always the welfare and safety of the Nigerian youth. Following the President’s address, we hereby encourage all young Nigerians to stay safe, stay home, and observe the mandated curfew in your state. “The Feminist Coalition has made a decision to henceforth stop all donation inflows for the #EndSARS peaceful protest. The rest of the donations will go towards funding medical emergencies, legal aid for wrongfully detained citizens, and relief for victims of police brutality and families of the deceased.” The coalition also gave a summary of the total funds they received and disbursed (in Naira) over the past 14 days: Total received = ₦147,855,788.28 (includes donations in USD, CAD, GBP, EUR, GHS, KES, and BTC) Total disbursed = ₦60,403,235.00
Total left = ₦87,452,553.28 The remaining funds they said, will be channeled through the following initiatives/organisations: #EndSARSresponse (Medical) – ₦20,114,087.25
The Legal Aid Network – ₦15,741,459.59
Relief for victims of police brutality and families of the deceased – ₦40,228,174.51
Memorial for the Fallen – ₦5,247,153.197
#EndSARSMentalHealthSupport – ₦6,121,678.73 “We wish to emphasise that we will no longer be accepting donations for #EndSARS going forward. The Feminist Coalition remains committed to its core mandate, which is, championing the advancement of the Nigerian woman,” they said.