The number of active cases of COVID-19 cases in Nigeria have dropped to 3,627 cases according to the latest numbers from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The NCDC on Saturday reported 113 new cases of the coronavirus disease. The total number of confirmed cases now stands at 61,307. NCDC said in a tweet that, “Our discharges today include 4,161 community recoveries in Lagos State managed in line with new case management guidelines.” A total of 56,557 patients have so far been discharged and 1,123 deaths recorded. Lagos State recorded the highest number of new cases with 37 infections, followed by Kaduna, which had 16 new cases. Ogun and Plateau states have 11 new cases each, while Taraba State had eight.
Rivers State had seven new cases, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) reported six, Enugu and Niger had four each, Edo had three, Delta and Imo had two each, while Benue and Kano had one each. The senior pastor of Good Tidings Bible Church International, Dayo Olutayo, has warned the government that no harm should befall young people on the streets protesting police brutality and calling for the dismantling of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, a unit of the Nigeria Police Force. Pastor Olutayo made the call in a statement on Sunday where he praised the steadfastness and restraint of the youths out on the streets. He said, “In the last 12 days, youths across our country have been on the streets demanding an end to police brutality and specifically calling for action under the hashtags #EndSARS #EndSWAT. READ ALSO: #EndSARS: Army Goes On Cyberspace Offensive With Exercise Crocodile Smile ‘I’m amazed at their steadfastness, organization and restraint. They should and must be protected from harm.” Olutayo said, “Their demands for the respect of their rights, for justice and accountability over brutal crimes committed against a number of young citizens by wayward officers still in uniform, are not for them alone. “The police, who are also victims of a broken system, would benefit from a fairer, more accountable system. Everyone gains.” READ ALSO: EndSARS: Anonymous Hacks EFCC’s Website Hearing alone, he said, “won’t solve the problem; the youths have been complaining for decades. Also, creating new committees won’t solve the problem; there have been at least four presidential committees on police reforms in the last decade or so. It’s time to ACR, Mr. President: #EndSARS #EndSWAT. End police brutality.”