Nigeria’s former Finance Minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and South Korea’s Trade Minister are now the only two contestants remaining in selection process for the top job at the World Trade Organisation (WTO), according to reports from Bloomberg. The paper reported on Wednesday that World WTO members selected two final candidates, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and South Yoo Myung-hee, to advance to the final round in the race to lead the Geneva-based trade body, according to people familiar with the matter. READ ALSO: Okonjo-Iweala, 4 Others Qualify Next Round Of WTO Contest By advancing the two women to the final round of the selection process, the WTO will likely have the first female director general in its 25-year history. Okonjo-Iweala served two stints as Nigeria’s finance minister. She has experience working at international international governance bodies as a former managing director of the World Bank and as a chairman at the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization. Yoo is South Korea’s trade minister. READ ALSO: WTO Ignores Egypt, Accepts Nomination Of Okonjo-Iweala During her 25-year career in government, she has helped expand her country’s trade network through bilateral accords with the U.S., China and the United Kingdom. WTO General Council Chairman David Walker plans to formally announce the results to the institution’s delegates on Thursday morning in Geneva. The government of Nasir El-Rufai has selected Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli as the new Emir of Zazzau following the September 20, 2020 death of Emir Shehu Idris who reigned for 45 years and was the 18th emir. Born in June 1966, Bamalli studied Law at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. He holds a master’s degree in International Relations and Diplomacy and a diploma in Organisational Leadership from Oxford University. READ ALSO: Emir Of Zaria, Shehu Idris Dies At 84 In a statement by Ja’afaru Sani, the Commissioner of Local Government Affairs, the governor congratulated Bamalli on his appointment and wished him a successful and peaceful reign. Sani said Alhaji Bamalli was the first emir from the Mallawa ruling house in 100 years following the demise in 1920 of his grandfather, Emir Dan Sani. Until his appointment as Emir of Zazzau, Bamalli held the title of Magajin Garin Zazzau and served as Nigeria’s ambassador to Thailand, with concurrent accreditation to Myanmar. READ ALSO: New Emir: Kaduna Government Confirms Receipt Of Zazzau kingmakers Report He has been a permanent commissioner in the Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission in 2015. He has worked in the banking sector as Executive Director and later acting Managing Director of the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company.