The Nigerian Army is taking the offensive with the launch of its annual exercise Crocodile Smile to identify, track and counter negative propaganda in the social media and across the cyberspace. Spokesman of the Nigerian Army, Musa Sagir, said this in a statement on Saturday. The exercise, he said kicks off on Saturday. He said, “This year’s Exercise CROCODILE SMILE V1 is scheduled to commence from the 20th of October to the 31st of December 2020. “The Exercise is deliberately intended to be all encompassing to include cyber warfare exercises designed to identify, track and counter negative propaganda in the social media and across the cyberspace.” Musa said, “This is the first ever Cyberwarfare exercise to be conducted in the history of the African Armed Forces. Accordingly, the exercise will also include positive identification component aimed at identifying Boko Haram terrorists fleeing from the North East and other parts of the country as a result of the ongoing operations in the various theatres of operations especially in the Northeast, North Central and North Western parts of Nigeria. “The Nigerian Army, once again, reassures all well meaning Nigerians of its commitment to the sustenance of peace and security in Nigeria and urges members of the public for their support and understanding throughout the period of the exercise.” Anonymous, a group of international activists known for launching  cyber attacks on government institutions, has hacked the websites of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The group also hacked the website of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The group claimed responsibility for the cyber attacks on the two Nigerian institutions in tweet. It had also claimed for previous attacks on other institutions like the National Broadcasting Commission and the Central Bank of Nigeria. The tweet read, “Official website of @officialEFCC has been taken down in support of #EndSARSProtest. CHECK HOST : https://check-host.net/check-report/df89d3bk838 TARGET : https://efccnigeria.org/efcc/ You should have expected us! #EndCorruptionInNigeria. The cyber attacks followed days of EndSARS street protests across the country over police brutally. The protests have seen major highways blocked by protesting citizens in major cities like Lagos and Abuja.