The Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) has constituted a committee to review the framework for the licensing of Infrastructure Companies (InfraCo) and recommend sustainable funding options for effective implementation of the proposed national fibre project. NCC said in a statement on Sunday that the constitution of the committee was sequel to the requirements of the new Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP 2020-2025) and reports of relevant committees set up by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), which include the Inter-Ministerial Review Committee on Multiple Taxation on Telecommunications Operators over Right-of-Way (RoW) and the Technical Sub-Committee on Right-of-Way for Deepening Broadband Penetration in Nigeria. Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, the Commission’s director of public affairs who signed the statement said, “These requirements and reports relate to the imperative of reviewing the InfraCo framework to cater for the delays in take-off, change in exchange rate, supply chain and other challenges imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. “So far, the Committee set up by the Commission has met with all the six licensed InfraCos as well as the preferred bidder for the North Central zone. The Committee is also looking at the challenges facing the InfraCo project, the need for accelerated deployment of fibre infrastructure, means of mitigating the exorbitant RoW charges, among others.” The Commission, he said was also working actively with the Broadband Implementation Steering Committee (BISC), as constituted by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy based on the recommendations and requirements of the NNBP 2020-2025. PAdinde quoted the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, to have said, “The InfraCo project is dear to the government because of its ability to enhance robust and pervasive broadband infrastructure to drive service availability, accessibility and affordability.” Danbatta said, “We are keen on ensuring the project delivers maximum benefits for the economy at large and that is why the ongoing review is very critical to the overall success of the project in line with the new realities of the time.” The EVC clarified that the current status of the InfraCo project, as provided above, is contrary to reports suggesting that the Commission is inching towards executing the counterpart funding in respect of the project. EndSARS protesters held their Sunday service in front of the Lagos government house with Leke Adeboye, son of the general overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, joining and leading the service. The protesters who have been on the streets for more than a week now have been demanding an end to police brutality. Adeboye, leading the service said, “I want all of us to know that this nation has been handed over to us slowly but surely by this singular move that we are all here representing our families, friends and nation. This is the beginning of the new Nigeria.” He said, “Father, please touch my nation! Please touch our leaders! Please touch me! “Oh Lord! Touch this nation. Touch our leaders, touch their hearts, touch their ears, touch their brains so that this nation can be greater and become nation that we want in Jesus name.”