Governor Rotimi Akeredolu is in the lead after the announcement of governorship elections results from 12 Local Government Areas in Ondo State. Akeredolu, the All Progressives Congress’ candidate has so far polled 178,944 votes. His main challenger, while Eyitayo Jegede of the People’s Democratic Party has 141,083 votes. Deputy governor of Ondo and candidate of the Zenith Labour Party, Agboola Ajayi has 32,060 votes. The Independent National Electoral Commission which took a break after collating and announcing LGA results overnight is expected to resume the announcement of election results in the Akure Collation Centre 9 a.m. Sunday. Election results thar have given Akeredolu the lead include those from Idanre, Ifedore, Ile-Ojuli, Akoko South West, Akoko North West and Owo, Irele, Ondo East, Akoko North East, Akure North, Akure South and Akure South East. The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted cloudiness and thunderstorms from Sunday to Tuesday. NiMet`s weather outlook released on Saturday in Abuja predicted partly cloudy skies over the northern region with slim prospects of rains over parts of Adamawa, Bauchi and Gombe State during the morning hours of Sunday. According to the agency, there are prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Sokoto, Zamfara, Borno, Taraba and Bauchi States later in the day. “The north central cities should be predominantly partly cloudy to cloudy in the morning. During the afternoon and evening hours, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Kwara, Abuja, Benue, Plateau and Niger States. “Cloudiness is expected over the inland of the south and coastal region with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Akwa Ibom and Cross River States during the morning hours. “The afternoon and evening periods also hold prospects of rains over parts of Osun, Ekiti, Oyo, Cross River, Rivers and Imo State,“ it said. The agency forecasts partly cloudy skies over the northern region in the morning hours of Monday. It envisaged partly cloudy conditions with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Adamawa and Taraba States later in the day.
According to it, partly cloudy to cloudy conditions are expected over the north central cities during morning hours. “Later in the day, partly cloudy to cloudy conditions are likely with chances of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Plateau, Abuja, Kogi, Benue, Niger and Nassarawa State. “Cloudy conditions should prevail over the inland and coastal areas of the south with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Abia, Rivers, Imo, Enugu, Cross River and Akwa Ibom States during the morning hours. “Later in the day, thunderstorms are expected over Osun, Oyo, Ekiti, Ondo, Lagos, Ogun, Rivers and Cross River States,“ it said. According to NiMet, partly cloudy skies are anticipated over the northern region in the morning hours of Tuesday. It predicted prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Bauchi, Taraba and Adamawa States during the afternoon and evening hours. The agency forecast partly cloudy to cloudy skies in the north central region with slim chances of rains over parts of Abuja, Niger, Kogi and Nassarawa States during the morning hours. “Later in the day, thunderstorms are expected over parts of Kwara, Kogi, Plateau, Niger, Abuja and Benue States. “The inland of the south is expected to be cloudy while the coastal area holds prospects of rains over parts of Cross River and Akwa Ibom States in the morning. “Later in the day, there are prospects of thunderstorms over most places in the region,’ the agency said. (NAN)