The Nigeria Centre For Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed 170 new COVID-19 cases with three coronavirus related deaths recorded in 10 states and Federal Capital Territory in the last 24 hours. The NCDC made this known via its verified website on Friday. The public health agency said that the new confirmed brings the nation’s total number of  COVID-19 infections to 62,691. More than 620,758 samples have been tested by the agency, out of which 62,691 were positive in the country. The agency stated that 181 patients were successfully treated and have now been discharged from isolation centres across the country. The health agency said that Lagos State reported 106 cases of the new virus, followed by FCT with 25 cases, Oyo had 14 cases. Edo and Kaduna reported 7 cases each, while Ogun had 4 cases. Other states are Bauchi-2, Benue-2, Kano-1, Osun-1 and Rivers-1. The NCDC noted that as of October 30, 2020, 170 new confirmed cases and three deaths were recorded in the country. Till date, 62,691 cases have been confirmed, 58,430 cases have been discharged and 1,144 deaths have been recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The public health agency said that a multi-sectoral national emergency operations centre (EOC), activated at Level 3, continued to coordinate the national response activities. (NAN) The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has assured that hoodlums who carted away items meant for corps members would be tracked and made to face the law. Adamu said this on Friday after inspecting the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) camp in Kubwa, Abuja. The hoodlums attacked the camp on Tuesday and carted away food items and other materials. “It is very unfortunate that the place was heavily looted as we went round to see the destruction made by the hoodlums,” he said. He expressed worry over the situation, adding that the camp meant for the training of youths to enable them contribute their quota to the development of the country had turned out to be the focus of looters. Adamu said it was a good thing that corps members were not in camp during the incident. “It would have been a disaster had they been around,” he said. According to him, some of the items have been recovered, while some of the hoodlums have been arrested. “A total number of 53 suspects have been arrested so far and would be charged to court,” he said. He called on Nigerians to report persons suspected to be in possession of the looted items to the nearest law enforcement agency. “For those who broke into this facility and stole, we assure Nigerians that we shall pursue them, track them and prosecute them,” Adamu said. The Director-General, NYSC, Brigadier-General Shuaibu Ibrahim, said that the scheme was preparing for the forthcoming orientation scheduled to begin on Nov. 10, people assumed there were palliatives in the camp. “People think that NYSC camps have palliatives, but I want to tell Nigerians that we don’t have palliatives in our camps,” he said. He, therefore, advised the youth to stop attacking NYSC camps as  most of the items were labelled. (NAN)