The senior pastor of Good Tidings Bible Church International, Dayo Olutayo, has warned the government that no harm should befall young people on the streets protesting police brutality and calling for the dismantling of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, a unit of the Nigeria Police Force. Pastor Olutayo made the call in a statement on Sunday where he praised the steadfastness and restraint of the youths out on the streets. He said, “In the last 12 days, youths across our country have been on the streets demanding an end to police brutality and specifically calling for action under the hashtags #EndSARS #EndSWAT. READ ALSO: #EndSARS: Army Goes On Cyberspace Offensive With Exercise Crocodile Smile ‘I’m amazed at their steadfastness, organization and restraint. They should and must be protected from harm.” Olutayo said, “Their demands for the respect of their rights, for justice and accountability over brutal crimes committed against a number of young citizens by wayward officers still in uniform, are not for them alone. “The police, who are also victims of a broken system, would benefit from a fairer, more accountable system. Everyone gains.” READ ALSO: EndSARS: Anonymous Hacks EFCC’s Website Hearing alone, he said, “won’t solve the problem; the youths have been complaining for decades. Also, creating new committees won’t solve the problem; there have been at least four presidential committees on police reforms in the last decade or so. It’s time to ACR, Mr. President: #EndSARS #EndSWAT. End police brutality.” The Nigerian Army is taking the offensive with the launch of its annual exercise Crocodile Smile to identify, track and counter negative propaganda in the social media and across the cyberspace. Spokesman of the Nigerian Army, Musa Sagir, said this in a statement on Saturday. The exercise, he said kicks off on Saturday. He said, “This year’s Exercise CROCODILE SMILE V1 is scheduled to commence from the 20th of October to the 31st of December 2020. “The Exercise is deliberately intended to be all encompassing to include cyber warfare exercises designed to identify, track and counter negative propaganda in the social media and across the cyberspace.” Musa said, “This is the first ever Cyberwarfare exercise to be conducted in the history of the African Armed Forces. Accordingly, the exercise will also include positive identification component aimed at identifying Boko Haram terrorists fleeing from the North East and other parts of the country as a result of the ongoing operations in the various theatres of operations especially in the Northeast, North Central and North Western parts of Nigeria. “The Nigerian Army, once again, reassures all well meaning Nigerians of its commitment to the sustenance of peace and security in Nigeria and urges members of the public for their support and understanding throughout the period of the exercise.”