Nigeria recorded one death and 225 COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed on its Twitter handle on Tuesday. The public health agency added that 63 treated patients recovered from the infection and were discharged accordingly. It said that the new infection were reported from 11 states with Lagos having 165, FCT 17, Rivers 13, Ogun 12, Niger (8), Delta (4), Ondo (2), Anambra (1), Edo (1), Ekiti (1), and Kaduna (1). The NCDC stated  that it had conducted about 558,313 tests since the first confirmed case was announced in the country. “Till date, 60,655 cases have been confirmed, 52,006 cases have been discharged and 1,116 deaths have been recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. It said that a multi-sectoral national emergency operations centre (EOC), activated at Level 3, have continued  to coordinate the national response activities across the country. The Executive Director of Baobab for Women’s Rights, Bunmi Dipo-Salami, says questions on how women have fared after 60 years of independence need answers inorder to chart a productive way forward. Dipo-Salami spoke on Tuesday at a virtual intergenerational town hall meeting with the theme ‘Accountability for Women’s Development 60 years after Independence. The virtual meeting was put together by her organisation convening  different generations of women across sectors. In her introductory speech, she said the objectives of the meeting were to assess the progress that women have made over the years, bridge the inter-generational knowledge gap among women and examine how legal and policy frameworks have impacted the exercise of women’s rights. READ ALSO: I’m Beneficiary Of Not Too Young To Run Law – Kwara Commissioner She said, “In essence, this convening is aimed at looking back to understand the present which in turn would enable us look forward in a productive manner. “As Nigeria hits diamond in terms of age, we need to ask some pertinent questions around how women have fared – what gains have we made?” She asked, “Which opportunities have we lost? How can younger women stand on the shoulders of older women so  that they can see farther ahead? “Who should we hold accountable for improving the lives of women in order to enrich the nation on the long run? Why should we hold them accountable?” She noted that those and more were the issues the webinar sought to address along with what exactly is meant when people talk about ‘Accountability for Women’s Rights and Development in the country.