President Muhammadu Buhari has said EndSARS protesters killed during the October 20, 2020 march at the Lekki Toll Gate will get justice. The president also promised justice to property and business owners who were affected by the looting and burning of properties that engulfed several states in the aftermath of the shooting if protesters at Lekki. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement on Sunday said the president had has sought all the facts before speaking on the shootings at Lekki. Shehu said, “As the Judicial panel of inquiry set up by the Lagos State Government, one of the more dozen states to do so, starts sitting on Monday, President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed his full support and optimism that it will assist the nation to give justice to peaceful protesters who lost their lives, security men who were murdered and property owners whose assets were vandalized and looted. “The President, who said he had all along avoided going into a debate about the Lekki Toll Gate incidents until all the facts are established, appealed to the people all over the country to maintain peace and brotherhood as the machinery of the government and the wheel of justice turn against the perpetrators of murder, arson, stealing, rape, assault and malicious damage to public and private property.” Shehu said, “President Buhari reiterated his appeal for calm, brotherhood and communal harmony, telling Nigerians not to turn on each other in hate as according to him, peace, brotherhood, and inter-communal harmony are central to the nation’s ethos. “A government that has launched a massive crackdown on corruption, brought in strong laws for a decisive battle against corruption, pursues loot recovery at home and abroad, and taken strong decisions against those who thought they were above the law, will not fold its arms when an otherwise legitimate and peaceful protest is turning into free-for-all vandalism and looting. “While the administration has, for its part, blocked so many means of looting public money in a war against corruption, it is the expectation that all civil authorities, community and religious leaders in the country must rise against the organized looting and plunder we are witnessing in parts of the country.” He said, “Families must turn back children who bring home unaccounted goods, in the same way wives must ask their husbands to return looted items brought home. “What is more, is that criminal actions as we have so far witnessed can weaken and erode the confidence of our people and that of foreign businesses in investing in the economy.” The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy,  Dr. Isa Pantami has said, with the digitization of the economy, the ICT sector has the potential of contributing as much as 45 percent of the country’s GDP. The minister spoke at the maiden edition of Digital Nigeria Day (DND) 2020 hosted by the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy at the NCC’s Communications and Digital Economy Complex, Mbora, Abuja on Saturday, October 24, 2020. According the Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC’s director of public affairs, in a statement on Saturday, Pantami also committed to fully digitizing the economy, suggesting the ministries efforts are already reaping rewards. The Minister cited the World Economic Forum (WEF) report, which documents the huge economic potentials of digital economy, adding that based on this, the Ministry has developed the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) 2020-2030, the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP), 2020-2025 and several other policy initiatives to ensure effective digitisation of the Nigerian economy both from public and private sector perspectives. Pantami, Adinde said, “listed the various initiatives his Ministry has embarked upon  in the last one year said “Our efforts have culminated in impressive 17 per cent ICT contribution to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by the second quarter of 2020,” adding that this is a testament to ongoing effective implementation of the digital economy policies already put in place. “He said some of the challenges in the industry are being collaboratively addressed with emphasis on provision of digital skills to Nigerians and ensuring the citizens are protected online in line with our mandates as a Ministry.” The Minister, Adinde said, “however stated that the digital economy as s sector could be contributing as much as 45 per cent to GDP, considering that services in other sectors are being digitised leveraging on the ICT infrastructure. While thanking the agencies under the Ministry and industry stakeholders for their support so far, the Minister restated his commitment to continue to work in synergy with relevant stakeholders across Federal, State and Local governments towards effectively transforming Nigeria into a truly-digital economy.: In their goodwill messages, the heads of agencies under the Ministry, including the Executive Vice Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta; Chief Executive Officer, Galaxy Backbone, Prof.  Muhammed Abubakar; Director General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Kashifu Abdullahi; Director General, National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Dr. Aliyu Abubakar; Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT), Dr. Abimbola Alale and the Director General, Nigeria Postal Services (NIPOST), Dr. Adebayo Adewusi, restated their resolve to work with the Ministry towards achieving the digital economy vision of the Federal Government. In particular, Danbatta, being the Co-Chair, organising committee for the event, thanked the Minister for his pragmatic leadership, which is enhancing the performance of the ICT industry in Nigeria. “We are confident that achieving targets of the digital economy policy and broadband policy will help us achieve increased digital access, reduce digital divide, enhance digital culture and ultimately ensure the realisation of a knowledge-based economy for the country,” Danbatta said. Representatives of industry associations such as the Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria (ISPON), Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) and Certified ICT Manufacturers of Nigeria (CIMON) delivered their goodwill messages, promising their continuous support to government initiatives and policies towards driving the frontiers of digital economy for Nigeria’s socio-economic prosperity.