The Inspector General of Police (I-G), Mr Mohammed Adamu, has deployed the Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police in charge of Research and Planning, Mr. Adeleye Oyabade, to coordinate security for the Ondo State governorship election. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Mr. Frank Mba disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. He said that others deployed to assist Oyabade were Mr. Karma Hassan, the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Federal Operations and 11 Commissioners of Police (CPs). Mba said the CPs deployed to handle other layers of security in the State were Abiodun Alabi, Bishi Omololu, Ashafa Kunle, Akeera Yonous, Buba Sanusi, Audu Madaki, Evelyn Peterside, Sadiku Gbenga and Abutu Yaro. READ ALSO: Fire Destroys 5,141 INEC Card Readers For Ondo Governorship Election According to him, CP Garba Umar will be in charge of Monitoring/Evaluation and will be assisted by CP Habu Sani. He said the deployment was part of efforts by the police to ensure effective coordination and full implementation of security arrangements toward a peaceful election in the state on October 10. The FPRO said the IG had charged the coordinating DIG to bring his wealth of experience to bear by ensuring due enforcement of all electoral laws during the exercise. READ ALSO: Ondo 2020: INEC Chairman Commends LG Offices’ Preparations He said the IG had warned that no Security Aides would be allowed to accompany VIPs or political appointees on the Election Day, adding that severe punishments would be meted out on violators of the order. Mba said that the IG had called officers and men of the Force as well as personnel of other security agencies deployed for the election to conduct themselves professionally. He said that the I-G had also urged the security personnel to work in line with best practices as highlighted in the Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for Elections. (NAN) The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Friday reported 126 new cases of COVID-19 infections in the country. It takes the total number of confirmed cases of the Coronavirus disease to 59,127 while the death toll remains at 1,112. A total of 50,593 patients have so far been discharged from treatment centres. The NCDC Friday update also showed that 12 out of the 37 states in the country accounted for the 126 new cases. Lagos State recorded the highest number of new cases with 62 infections followed by Rivers State , which had 22 cases. In Ogun State, there nine new cases, seven each in Plateau State and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), and five each in Osun and Kwara states. There were three cases in Taraba State, two each in Bayelsa and Abia states, and one each in Zamfara and Imo states.