The President of the United States of America, Donald Trump, who has been admitted to a military hospital after contracting COVID-19 has described the treatment he is currently receiving as a miracle from God. Speaking in a video from his conference room at the hospital late on Saturday, the president said he had the option of locking himself in the White House and not see anyone as protection by the coronavirus, but simply could not do that. He said in the video, “I want to begin by thanking all of the incredible medical professionals, the doctors, the nurses, everybody at Walter Reed Medical Cetnter; I think it is the finest in the world, for the incredible work they’ve been doing. “I came here, wasn’t feeling so well. I feel much better now. We are working hard to get me all the way back. I have to be back because we still have to make America great again. We’ve done an awfully good job at that.” READ ALSO: Donald Trump And Wife, Melania Contract COVID-19 He said, “But we still have steps to go and we have to finish that job. And I’ll be back, I think I’ll be back soon. And I look forward to finishing the campaign the way it was started and the way we’ve been doing, the kind of numbers we’ve been doing. “We’ve been so proud of it. But this was something that happened and it has happened to millions of people all over the world and I am fighting for them, not just in the U.S, I am fighting for them all over the world. We are going to beat this coronavirus or whatever you want to call it, and we are going to beat it soundly. So many things have happened. “ Trump said, “If you look at the therapeutics, which I am taking right now, some of them, and others are coming out soon, that are looking like, frankly, they miracles if you want to know the truth. People criticize me when I say that. “But we have things happening that look like they are miracles coming down from God. So, I just want to tell you than I am starting to feel good. You don’t know over the next period of a few days. I guess that’s the real test, so we will be seeing what happens over the period of the next couple of days.” He said, “I just want to be so thankful for all of the support I have seen, whether it is on television or reading about it. I most of all appreciate what has been said by the American people, by almost a bi-partisan consensus of American people. READ ALSO: Trump To Be Moved To Military Hospital After COVID-19 Diagnosis “It is a beautiful thing to see and I very much appreciate it and I won’t forget it. I promise you that. I also want to thank the leaders of the world for their condolences. They know what we are going through.” He said, “They know what, as your leader, what I had to go through. But I had no choice, because I just didn’t want to stay in the White House. I was given that alternative, stay I the White House, lock yourself in, don’t ever leave, don’t even go to the Oval Office, just stay upstairs and enjoy it, don’t see people and don’t talk to people and just be done with it. “I can’t do that. I had to be out front. This is the United States. This is the greatest country in the world, this is the most powerful country in the world. I can’t be locked upstairs in a room, totally safe and just say whatever happens, happens. I can’t do that.”