The youngest commissioner in Nigeria, Joana Kolo, while thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the Not Too Young To Run bill into law has said she is a beneficiary of the Act. Speaking during a webinar on Accountability for Women’s Development 60 Years After Independence, Kolo, the Commissioner for Sports and Youth in Kwara State said her state governor, Abdulrahman Abddulrazak, had acted on the law by making her a commissioner. Kolo, appointed commissioner in 2019 at the age of 26 was one of several speakers at the webinar on Tuesday organised by BAOBAB for Women’s Human Rights. She is the youngest Commissioner in the country. Another speaker at the event, Hauwa Shekarau called for the participation of more young people in the fight for gender equality. While acknowledging progress made since independence on the ratio of women in politics, Shekarau, a women’s rights activist and the first female chairperson of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Abuja, said there was still a long way to go. Also speaking on the generational involvement, Oluremi Obilade, a professor of women’s studies said her generation needed to stop being overtly and covertly judgemental towards the younger generation. Obilade said they should be able to put themselves in the shoes of the younger generation. Uchenna Idoko, the executive director of Centre for Gender Economics (GCE) Africa said the government first, along with everyone else should be held accountable for gender equality. According to her, the education system, teachers, the school curriculum and even the text in books used in institutions are all part of the challenge. The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), an advocacy group in Lagos, on Wednesday called on the #EndSARS protesters against police brutality to disperse since the Federal Government has disbanded the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). In a statement, MURIC warned hoodlums and politicians from turning the protest into their parochial agenda. Commending the efforts of the protesters, the leader of the group, Professor Ishaq Akintola, condemned the reported excesses of the SARS, saying, “We frown at the brutal killing of young Nigerians in the hands of the police and consider these as crimes against humanity. READ ALSO: EndSARS Protests: Presidential Panel On Police Reforms Endorses 5-Point Demand He said, “The protesters should now disperse, go home and and organisers of the protest must take responsibility as there is no reason why #EndSARS protest should metamorphose into any other movement. “We also caution hoodlums and politicians against hijacking the protest for their selfish and parochial agenda,” he said. READ ALSO: Police kills Another #EndSARS Protester Akintola said, “These actions by SARS are a gross violation of freedom of movement and association which are fundamental human rights guaranteed under the country’s constitution which the police swore to protect. “We therefore find justification for the Nigerian youths who participated in the #EndSARSprotests. We also appreciate the prompt action of the Federal Government.” (NAN)