The FCT Minister, Muhammad Bello, has urged all Muslims to adhere to the cardinal principle of peace upon which the religion of Islam is built. Bello made the call in his Eid-El-Maulud message to the residents of FCT, in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. “On behalf of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), I congratulate the Muslim Ummah in the FCT on the occasion of Maulud Nabiyy of our noble Prophet Muhammad for the Islamic year 1442 after Hijra. “As we all know, Maulud is a celebration of the birth of Prophet Muhammad. It is an occasion which calls for sober reflection and spiritual rejuvenation. “As we celebrate this important moment, I urge all Muslims to adhere to that cardinal principle of peace upon which the religion of Islam is built,” Bello said. He also enjoined all Muslims and other residents in the FCT to join their compatriots across the country to ponder deeply on the challenges currently confronting the nation. The minister said there was an urgent need for Muslims to imbibe the true meaning of piety, sacrifice, patience, tolerance and fellowship in their relationship and dealings with fellow residents. “We should not only embrace dialogue in settling our differences, but we should also reject all attempts by unpatriotic individuals or groups to incite violence which in the end is unrewarding. “It is only by embracing dialogue that we can ensure peace in our polity and in this way, the lessons that Eid-el-Maulud teaches would have served its true purpose. “We should also remember that the FCT is built on a foundation of unity and tolerance for all Nigerians. As residents of the FCT, we are obliged to imbibe and practice these principles. “I want to use this occasion, therefore, to appeal to all FCT residents to continue to support efforts of the government to improve governance and revive the economy,” the minister said. (NAN) The printing of examination papers and other materials for the Basic Education Certification Examination, the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination and the National Common Entrance is to gulp N2.9bn. The approval was given by the Federal Executive Council in Abuja on Wednesday. The session, which was presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, also approved another N1.6bn for the repair of failed roads in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. Three ministers -Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Education, Adamu Adamu; and Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello -spoke with State House correspondents after the meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Giving explanations on the examination papers, the education minister said the contract would be executed by eight printing firms, each delivering an assigned quantity. He listed the examinations for which the papers would be printed as the Basic Education Certification Examination, the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination, and the National Common Entrance. However, Adamu stated that examinations had been put off for now because of the fallout of the recent #EndSARS protests, which later turned violent in parts of the country. Besides the violence resulting from the protests, many hoodlums had seized the opportunity to loot both public and private property in the states. Many warehouse where COVID -19 palliatives were kept, were also vandalised and the stock taken away by the hoodlums. The N1.6bn approved for roads is to cover repairs in the adjoining towns of Abuja, especially Gwagwalada and Kwali, according to the FCT minister, Bello. Shortly before the meeting went into full deliberations, the Chairman and members of the National Population Commission were inaugurated by Buhari. Isa Kwarra was inaugurated as the chairman, along with other members representing states in the geopolitical zones of the country.